

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

(Dollars in tables and graphs in millions) 

The following Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Honeywell International Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (Honeywell or the Company) for the three years ended December 31, 2020. All references to Notes relate to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the section titled Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

On October 1, 2018, we completed the tax-free spin-off to Honeywell shareowners of our Transportation Systems business, previously part of Aerospace, into a standalone publicly-traded company, Garrett Motion Inc. (Garrett). 

On October 29, 2018, we completed the tax-free spin-off to Honeywell shareowners of our Homes and Global Distribution business, previously part of Home and Building Technologies (renamed Honeywell Building Technologies following the spin-off), into a standalone publicly-traded company, Resideo Technologies, Inc. (Resideo). 

We removed the assets and liabilities associated with Garrett and Resideo from our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the effective dates of the respective spin-offs. We included the results of operations for Garrett and Resideo in our Consolidated Statement of Operations through the effective dates of the respective spin-offs. Total sales attributable to these spin-offs were $6.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

A detailed discussion of the prior year 2019 to 2018 year-over-year changes are not included herein and can be found in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in the 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 14 , 20 20 . 

COVID-19 UPDATE 

In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) was identified in Asia. Over the next several months, COVID-19 quickly spread across the world. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a worldwide pandemic. As of December 31, 2020, the virus continues to spread and many countries are experiencing a resurgence in infection rates. Although vaccines have recently been made available, the availability and distribution of the vaccines continue to provide challenges. 

Governments took unprecedented actions to contain the spread of COVID-19, temporarily shutting down non-essential businesses, issuing stay at home or &#8220;shelter in place&#8221; orders and asking citizens to avoid all non-essential travel. In certain situations, governments closed borders and issued mandatory quarantines. Companies were asked, and in many cases were required, to allow non-essential employees to work remotely. Consumer spending declined, global travel demand declined significantly, and the world entered a global recession. 

These events impacted our business operations in multiple ways. In the first quarter of 2020, we quickly responded to the changing environment. In January 2020, we implemented policies in select countries within Asia to restrict travel and require employees to work from home for all roles that allow for remote work. In March 2020, we expanded this work from home policy to include our employees worldwide. We introduced appropriate safety and hygiene protocols to enable our manufacturing employees to operate safely through the pandemic. We actively monitored the changing government rules and regulations for each of our locations worldwide. 

We remain cautious as many factors remain unpredictable, including the increasing rate of COVID-19 infections. We continue to monitor COVID-19 infection rates globally and acknowledge the risk of new surges in COVID-19 infections. 

We prepared procedures for the phased return of our employees to office sites and trained our local site leaders in the appropriate safety and hygiene protocols. As of December 31, 2020, all of our manufacturing sites continue to operate and, outside of India, most of our employees in Asia have returned to the workplace in some capacity. We also returned small numbers of workers to select office sites within Europe and North America. In many countries, including the U.S., most of our non-manufacturing employees continue to work from home (for all roles that allow for remote work). 

9 Honeywell International, Inc. 

The global recession resulted in a slow-down in demand for many of the products and services that we offer. The impact on each of our businesses is outlined below: 

&#8226; Aerospace &#8211; The decline in global travel negatively impacted many of our customers, resulting in lower demand for our products from OEMs and negatively impacted demand for our commercial aftermarket businesses. As a result, this segment's sales and profits declined for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. 

&#8226; Performance Materials and Technologies &#8211; Many of our customers operate in the oil and gas industry. The decline in global travel, coupled with excessive oil and gas supply, negatively impacted many of our customers and resulted in lower demand for our products. As a result, this segment's sales and profits declined for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. 

&#8226; Honeywell Building Technologies &#8211; Our customers own or manage buildings in a variety of industries including commercial real estate, hospitality, government, healthcare, banking and education. The global recession impacted many of these industries, resulting in a reduction of discretionary spending. As a result, this segment's sales and profits declined for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. 

&#8226; Safety and Productivity Solutions &#8211; The global pandemic created significant demand for our respiratory PPE and warehouse automation driving increases in this segment's sales and profits for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. 

As a result of the slowdown in demand for our products, we implemented several cost reduction programs across our enterprise. We canceled our 2020 merit increases and reduced executive and Board of Director compensation. We initiated reduced work schedules across the company and implemented permanent census reductions. 

We also took several steps to secure additional liquidity. In March 2020, we entered into a $6.0 billion Delayed Draw Term Loan Agreement. In May 2020, we completed a public Senior Notes offering, which provided $3.0 billion of available liquidity and permanently reduced the undrawn commitments under the Delayed Draw Term Loan Agreement by $3.0 billion. In June 2020, we drew on the remaining $3.0 billion of commitments under the Delayed Draw Term Loan Agreement. In August 2020, we completed a public Senior Notes offering, which provided $3.0 billion of available liquidity and was used to repay the outstanding principal amount of $3.0 billion under the Delayed Draw Term Loan Agreement. As of December 31, 2020, there are no outstanding borrowings or commitments remaining under the Delayed Draw Term Loan Agreement. Further, we held $15.2 billion of available cash and cash equivalents, including short-term investments. 

We continue to monitor and respond to the changing conditions created by the pandemic. 

Employee Health, Safety, and Economic Wellness 

We continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation and its impacts globally. We are prioritizing the health and safety of our employees. Out of an abundance of caution for the health of our employees and to support local government initiatives to stem the spread of the virus, we implemented several precautions at various sites around the world at all times in compliance with local government requirements and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines. These include, but are not limited to: 

&#8226; Limiting visitor site access to business-essential purposes; 

&#8226; Introducing screening checks at certain sites where permissible or mandated; 

&#8226; Enabling employees to work from home wherever and whenever required or appropriate; 

&#8226; Continuously updating travel guidance, according to latest developments; and 

&#8226; Complying with all local health authority guidance or regulations and our own protocols, including requesting employees to comply with self-quarantine requirements whenever advisable. 

We have taken a number of measures to support our employees during these difficult times. We extended medical benefits globally to cover out-of-pocket costs associated with testing for coronavirus, and for those on our U.S. company medical plans, we are also covering treatment costs. In Mexico, we introduced a medical benefit for employees at lower compensation levels to ensure access to private medical treatment. In the U.S., we changed our sick leave plan for non-exempt employees to make more sick time available earlier in the year if it is needed. We established a $10 million company-funded relief fund targeting employees worldwide at lower compensation levels, especially those on reduced work hours who did not receive high levels of income replacement from unemployment or other government assistance. 

10 Honeywell International, Inc. 

In addition to the measures to assist our employees, Honeywell contributed $2 million to establish a Small Business Innovation Fund in Charlotte to help our local economy. The fund helps storefront businesses with 50 or fewer employees make investments in new technologies and business models to adjust to the realities of operating in the COVID-19 environment. The fund prioritizes businesses owned by women, minorities and veterans. 

Our Commitment to Public Health 

In a partnership with the State of North Carolina and other local businesses, we announced a goal to deliver 1 million COVID-19 vaccines in North Carolina by July 4, 2021. In Phoenix, where our Aerospace business is headquartered, we will sponsor a week-long vaccination program in February 2021. In addition, Honeywell funded the provision of approximately 10 million meals and a month&#8217;s supply of hygiene kits to families in India suffering hardships due to the crisis. 

As we produce critical worker safety gear such as face masks, gloves, goggles, safety suits, and protective footwear, we play an essential role in the health and well-being of people and economies. To date, Honeywell has donated more than 2 million masks to frontline workers across multiple regions. Our customers and communities are depending on us more than ever to deliver for them and we are committed to supporting the safety of our employees, customers and fellow citizens around the world. 

We are investing in new production facilities and continue to expand existing facilities to increase production of essential PPE products. We will bring these products to market as quickly as possible. We are committed to healthcare professionals, first responders, distributors and other stakeholders in an effort to ensure our PPE products are being placed quickly and cost-effectively in the hands of those most in need. 

We announced our new capacity in the U.S. to make N95 masks, with production lines added in Rhode Island and Arizona that will collectively produce 40 million masks each month to support health, safety, and response workers globally. In addition, we are expanding our non-U.S. capacity with a new mask manufacturing line in the UK that is expected to produce 4.5 million masks each month, and a new line in India that is expected to produce 2 million masks each month. Separately, we are collaborating with Mubadala Investment Company's subsidiary, Strata Manufacturing, in the UAE to produce 30 million masks annually. 

We have communicated the following principles to our authorized distributor network: 

&#8226; Our expectation that, at a minimum, all of our partners will comply with all applicable laws prohibiting price gouging and apply appropriate diligence to the greatest extent possible to understand how our products are being purchased so that they are placed quickly and cost-effectively in the hands of those most in need - including first responders and medical professionals. 

&#8226; While we do not control the prices that third parties set, we expect our partners to fairly price PPE used in the COVID-19 response effort. 

&#8226; If we find that one of our partners is not upholding the letter or spirit of these principles, we reserve the right not to fulfill that partner&#8217;s orders and terminate our relationship with that party. 

We are also investing in developing and bringing to market a wide array of new COVID-related products, including but not limited to Healthy Buildings solutions, remote operations offerings, automation technologies to help speed vaccine development, vaccine packaging solutions, an ultraviolet cleaning system for aircraft, innovative dual-layer face covers and safety packs. 

Plant Productivity and Safety 

In situations where our businesses were deemed essential, we worked with local officials to determine how to safely operate our manufacturing facilities. We successfully operated these manufacturing facilities with minimal disruption in our productivity. In the second quarter of 2020, we repurposed certain manufacturing facilities to produce PPE that was in short supply around the world. As of December 31, 2020, more than 95% of our manufacturing sites were operating at normal production levels. 

We continue to provide essential services and produce essential goods around the world. We employ standards such as screening checks, use of masks, face coverings and other safety equipment and social distancing practices along production lines in our production facilities at all times in compliance with local government requirements and CDC guidelines. We take appropriate actions including disinfecting and quarantine procedures when a suspected COVID-19 case is identified. 

11 Honeywell International, Inc. 

Customers and Suppliers 

Current global economic conditions due to COVID-19 have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our customers&#8217; and suppliers&#8217; ability to operate or obtain financing, particularly in our airline, oil and gas, and automotive end markets. Customer or supplier bankruptcies, delays in their ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing could adversely affect our cash flow or results of operations. We continue to actively monitor both supplier and customer financial health and take measures to manage our supply chain disruptions and limit our exposure. 

See section titled Risk Factors for discussion of risks associated to the COVID-19 pandemic. 

12 Honeywell International, Inc. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Consolidated Financial Results 

Net Sales by Segment 

13 Honeywell International, Inc. 

Net Sales Attributable to Spun-Off Entities 

Segment Profit by Segment 

14 Honeywell International, Inc. 

CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS 

Net Sales 

The change in net sales was attributable to the following: 

##TABLE_START 2020 

Versus 

2019 

Versus 

Volume (12) % 3 % Price 1 % 2 % Foreign Currency Translation &#8212; % (1) % Acquisitions/Divestitures &#8212; % (16) % (11) % (12) % ##TABLE_END

2020 compared with 2019 

A discussion of net sales by segment can be found in the Review of Business Segments section of this Management Discussion and Analysis. 

The unfavorable volume in 2020 was driven by: 

&#8226; Lower sales across our businesses due to the impact of the global recession attributable to COVID-19 and volatility in the oil and gas industry, 

&#8226; Partially offset by strength in respiratory PPE products, warehouse automation projects, and defense and space. 

15 Honeywell International, Inc. 

Cost of Products and Services Sold 

2020 compared with 2019 

Cost of products and services sold decreased in 2020 primarily due to the following: 

&#8226; Lower direct and indirect material costs by approximately $1,130 million and $310 million, 

&#8226; Lower labor costs by approximately $800 million, driven by lower sales volumes and other cost actions to improve productivity. 

Gross Margin 

2020 compared with 2019 

Gross margin percentage decreased in 2020 primarily due to the following: 

&#8226; Lower gross margin in the Performance Materials and Technologies, Aerospace, and Safety and Productivity Solutions segments, 

&#8226; Partially offset by higher Honeywell Building Technologies gross margin. 

16 Honeywell International, Inc. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

2020 compared with 2019 

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to higher productivity, including lower costs resulting from repositioning actions. 

Other (Income) Expense 

##TABLE_START 2020 2019 2018 Other (income) expense $ (675) $ (1,065) $ (1,149) ##TABLE_END

2020 compared with 2019 

Other (income) expense changed due to the following: 

&#8226; Non-cash charges associated with the reduction in value of reimbursement receivables due from Garrett, 

&#8226; Lower interest income, and 

&#8226; Lower foreign exchange income, 

&#8226; Partially offset by higher pension income, higher equity income of affiliated companies and higher other postretirement income. 

17 Honeywell International, Inc. 

Tax Expense 

2020 compared with 2019 

The effective tax rate for 2020 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the favorable resolution of a foreign tax matter related to the previously completed spin-off transactions, tax impact of restructuring, tax law changes in India, and the resolution of certain U.S. tax matters offset by accrued withholding taxes related to unremitted foreign earnings and non-cash charges related to the reduction of the aggregate carrying value of certain receivables with no corresponding tax benefit. 

The effective tax rate for 2019 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily resulting from the impacts of revised guidance related to U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and internal restructuring initiatives that resulted in a $281 million reduction of accrued withholding taxes related to unremitted foreign earnings. 

For further discussion of changes in the effective tax rate, see Note 5 Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Net Income Attributable to Honeywell 

2020 compared with 2019 

Earnings per share of common stock&#8211;assuming dilution decreased due to the following: 

&#8226; Lower segment profit due to the impact of the global recession attributable to COVID-19 and volatility in the oil and gas industry, 

&#8226; Non-cash charges associated with the reduction in value of reimbursement receivables due from Garrett, and 

&#8226; Lower interest income, lower foreign exchange income, and higher repositioning costs, 

&#8226; Partially offset by lower income taxes, higher pension income, and the favorable impact of lower outstanding share count resulting from the Company's stock repurchases. 

18 Honeywell International, Inc. 

REVIEW OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

We globally manage our business operations through four segments: Aerospace, Honeywell Building Technologies, Performance Materials and Technologies, and Safety and Productivity Solutions. 

AEROSPACE 

##TABLE_START 2020 2019 Change 2020 vs 2019 

2018 Change 2019 vs 2018 

Net sales $ 11,544 $ 14,054 &#160; (18) % $ 15,493 &#160; (9) % Cost of products and services sold 7,813 9,398 &#160; 10,837 &#160; Selling, general and administrative and other expenses 827 1,049 &#160; 1,153 &#160; Segment profit $ 2,904 $ 3,607 (19) % $ 3,503 3 % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START Factors Contributing to Year-Over-Year Change 2020 vs. 2019 

2019 vs. 2018 

Net Sales Segment Profit Net Sales Segment Profit Organic (18) % (20) % 9 % 21 % Foreign currency translation &#8212; % &#8212; % &#8212; % &#8212; % Acquisitions, divestitures and other, net &#8212; % 1 % (18) % (18) % Total % Change (18) % (19) % (9) % 3 % ##TABLE_END

19 Honeywell International, Inc. 

2020 compared with 2019 

Aerospace Net sales decreased due to lower sales volumes as the decline in global travel resulting form COVID-19 negatively impacted many of our customers, resulting in lower demand for our products from OEMs and reduced demand for our aftermarket products and services. 

&#8226; Commercial Aviation Original Equipment sales decreased 36% (decreased 35% organic) due to lower demand from air transport and regional and business aviation OEMs. 

&#8226; Commercial Aviation Aftermarket sales decreased 34% (decreased 34% organic) due to lower demand in air transport and regional and business aviation. 

&#8226; Defense and Space sales increased 9% (increased 10% organic) driven by growth in U.S. and international defense. 

Aerospace segment profit decreased due to lower sales volume and lower sales of higher margin products and services, partially offset by favorable pricing. Cost of products and services sold decreased due to lower sales volumes. 

HONEYWELL BUILDING TECHNOLOGIES 

##TABLE_START 2020 2019 Change 2020 vs. 2019 

2018 Change 2019 vs. 2018 

Net sales $ 5,189 $ 5,717 &#160; (9) % $ 9,298 &#160; (39) % Cost of products and services sold 3,067 3,444 6,066 Selling, general and administrative and other expenses 1,023 1,108 1,624 Segment profit $ 1,099 $ 1,165 (6) % $ 1,608 (28) % ##TABLE_END

20 Honeywell International, Inc. 

##TABLE_START Factors Contributing to Year-Over-Year Change 2020 vs. 2019 

2019 vs. 2018 

Net Sales Segment Profit Net Sales Segment Profit Organic (9) % (5) % 5 % 8 % Foreign currency translation &#8212; % (1) % (2) % (2) % Acquisitions, divestitures and other, net &#8212; % &#8212; % (42) % (34) % Total % Change (9) % (6) % (39) % (28) % ##TABLE_END

2020 compared with 2019 

Honeywell Building Technologies Net sales decreased due to lower organic sales. Our customers own or manage buildings in a variety of industries including commercial real estate, hospitality, airports and other government buildings, healthcare and education. The global recession resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic impacted many of these industries, resulting in a reduction of discretionary spending and demand for our products and services. 

&#8226; Sales in Products decreased 10% (decreased 10% organic) primarily due to lower sales volumes. 

&#8226; Sales in Building Solutions decreased 9% (decreased 8% organic) primarily due to lower sales volumes and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. 

Honeywell Building Technologies segment profit decreased primarily due to lower sales volumes and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by favorable pricing. Cost of products and services sold decreased due to lower sales volumes. 

PERFORMANCE MATERIALS AND TECHNOLOGIES 

21 Honeywell International, Inc. 

##TABLE_START 2020 2019 Change 2020 vs. 2019 

2018 Change 2019 vs. 2018 

Net sales $ 9,423 $ 10,834 (13) % $ 10,674 1 % Cost of products and services sold 6,331 6,989 &#160; 6,948 &#160; Selling, general and administrative and other expenses 1,241 1,412 &#160; 1,398 &#160; Segment profit $ 1,851 $ 2,433 (24) % $ 2,328 5 % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START Factors Contributing to Year-Over-Year Change 2020 vs. 2019 

2019 vs. 2018 

Net Sales Segment Profit Net Sales Segment Profit Organic (13) % (24) % 4 % 6 % Foreign currency translation &#8212; % &#8212; % (3) % (1) % Acquisitions, divestitures and other, net &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; % &#8212; % Total % Change (13) % (24) % 1 % 5 % ##TABLE_END

2020 compared with 2019 

Performance Materials and Technologies Net sales decreased primarily due to lower sales volumes. Many of our customers operate in the oil and gas industry. The decline in global travel, coupled with excessive oil and gas supply, negatively impacted many of our customers, resulting in lower demand for our products and services. 

&#8226; UO P sales decreased 25% (decreased 25% organic) driven primarily by decreases in catalyst volumes, licensing, and engineering sales volumes. 

&#8226; Process Solutions sales decreased 11% (decreased 10% organic) primarily due to lower sales volumes in products businesses, automation projects and migration services. 

&#8226; Advanced Materials sales decreased 5% (decreased 6% organic) driven primarily by decreased sales volumes in fluorine products due to lower demand in automotive refrigerants, partially offset by increased sales volumes in specialty products. 

Performance Materials and Technologies segment profit decreased primarily due to operating leverage on lower sales volumes and lower sales of higher margin products and services, partially offset by other productivity actions. Cost of products and services sold decreased primarily due to lower sales volumes. 

22 Honeywell International, Inc. 

SAFETY AND PRODUCTIVITY SOLUTIONS 

##TABLE_START 2020 2019 Change 2020 vs. 2019 

2018 Change 2019 vs. 2018 

Net sales $ 6,481 $ 6,104 6 % $ 6,337 (4) % Cost of products and services sold 4,532 4,158 4,205 Selling, general and administrative and other expenses 1,042 1,156 1,100 Segment profit $ 907 $ 790 15 % $ 1,032 (23) % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START Factors Contributing to Year-Over-Year Change 2020 vs. 2019 

2019 vs. 2018 

Net Sales Segment Profit Net Sales Segment Profit Organic 6 % 16 % (4) % (23) % Foreign currency translation &#8212; % (1) % (2) % (2) % Acquisitions, divestitures and other, net &#8212; % &#8212; % 2 % 2 % Total % Change 6 % 15 % (4) % (23) % ##TABLE_END

23 Honeywell International, Inc. 

2020 compared with 2019 

Safety and Productivity Solutions Net sales increased primarily due to higher organic sales. The global pandemic has created significant increased demand for our respiratory PPE and additional demand for online shopping services, bolstering demand for our warehouse automation services. 

&#8226; Sales in Safety and Retail increased 9% (increased 9% organic) primarily due to a significant increase in order volume for respiratory PPE due to the global pandemic, partially offset by lower demand for gas sensing and detection equipment. 

&#8226; Sales in Productivity Solutions and Services decreased 1% (flat organic) due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. 

&#8226; Sales in Warehouse and Workflow Solutions increased 14% (increased 14% organic) primarily due to strong demand for our warehouse automation services. 

&#8226; Sales in Sensing &#38; IoT decreased 6% (decreased 6% organic) due to lower organic sales volumes. 

Safety and Productivity Solutions segment profit increased as a result of higher productivity, higher sales volumes, and favorable pricing, partially offset by higher sales of lower margin products and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Cost of products and services sold increased primarily due to higher organic sales volumes, partially offset by higher productivity. 

REPOSITIONING CHARGES 

See Note 4 Repositioning and Other Charges of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our repositioning actions and related charges incurred in 2020, 2019 and 2018. Cash spending related to our repositioning actions was $ 564 million, $249 million and $285 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, and was funded through operating cash flows. 

RISK FACTORS 

Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the material risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. 

MACROECONOMIC AND INDUSTRY RISKS 

Each of our businesses is subject to unique industry and economic conditions that may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. 

&#8226; Aerospace &#8212;Our Aerospace business is impacted by customer buying patterns of aftermarket parts, supplier stability, factory transitions and global supply chain capacity constraints that may lead to shortages of crucial components. Operating results may be adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel, which may impact new aircraft production or result in the delay or cancellation of new aircraft orders, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft, the retirement of aircraft and reductions in global flying hours, which impacts air transport and regional, business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates. Operating results may also be adversely affected by any decrease in air travel demand due to regional restrictions or suspension of service for public health, safety, or environmental events, such as the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which negatively impacted our operating results during 2020. Operating results could also be impacted by changes in overall trends related to end market demand for the product portfolio, as well as new entrants and non-traditional players entering the market. Operating results in our Defense and Space business unit may be affected by the mix of U.S. and foreign government appropriations for defense and space programs and by compliance risks. Results may also be impacted by the potential introduction of counterfeit parts into our global supply chain. 

&#8226; Honeywell Building Technologies &#8212;Operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global commercial construction activity (including retrofits and upgrades), lower capital spending and operating expenditures on building projects, decreased industrial plant expansion, changes in the competitive landscape including new market entrants and new technologies, and fluctuations in inventory levels in distribution channels. 

24 Honeywell International, Inc. 

&#8226; Performance Materials and Technologies &#8212;Operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers&#8217; availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, raw material demand and supply, product commoditization, continued illegal imports of hydrofluorocarbons into Europe and our ability to maximize our facilities&#8217; production capacity and minimize downtime. Periods of increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices may result in less investment by our customers and therefore, lower demand for our products and services. 

&#8226; Safety and Productivity Solutions &#8212;Operating results may be adversely impacted by reduced investments in process automation, safety monitoring, and plant capacity utilization initiatives, fluctuations in retail markets, a slowdown in demand for safety products, changes in the competitive landscape, including new market entrants and technology that may lead to product commoditization, and adverse industry economic conditions, all of which could result in lower market share, reduced selling prices and lower margins. 

The global COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic and related impacts adversely affect and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flow. 

The global spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) creates significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption that impacts our business, operations and financial results and may continue to do so. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact our business, operations and financial results will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict, including: the duration, scope and severity of the pandemic, including the extent of the continued increase in cases across the United States in particular, as well as the timing and availability of effective medical treatments and vaccines; governmental, business and individual decisions and actions; the pace of vaccine deployment; the impact of the pandemic on economic activity; and the extent to which we or our employees, customers, suppliers, service providers or other business partners may be prevented from conducting normal business activities, including due to shutdowns or other restrictive measures that may be requested or mandated by governmental authorities. These factors could, among other things, continue to disrupt (i) the purchasing, contracting and payment behaviors of our customers and their end-users; (ii) our operations, including our manufacturing activities, the shipment of our products, and the performance of our suppliers and service providers; and (iii) our liquidity and cash flow. 

Risks arising from the COVID-19 pandemic impacting our business and that may continue to impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects include, among other things: 

&#8226; Customer Risk &#8212;Existing and potential customers and their end-users may continue to take actions to reduce or suspend operations, reduce or delay spending, cancel contracts, or cut costs in a manner that reduces demand for our products and services. In particular, lower demand for air travel may continue to cause our customers to delay or suspend spending in connection with the manufacturing, repair, overhaul or servicing of aircraft, and there may be long-term deterioration in demand for air travel that could impact our business beyond the current COVID-19 health crisis. Customers may also continue to attempt to renegotiate contracts and obtain concessions, face financial constraints on their ability to make payments to us on a timely basis or at all, or enter into bankruptcy or discontinue their business operations, and we may continue to be required to discount the pricing of our products. In addition, unfavorable customer site conditions, such as closure of or access restrictions to customer facilities, and disruptions to our customers&#8217; third-party logistics, warehousing, inventory management and distribution services may continue to limit our ability to sell products, meet billing milestones or provide services. 

&#8226; Operations Risk &#8212;The closure of our facilities, restrictions inhibiting our employees&#8217; ability to access those facilities, and disruptions to the ability of our suppliers or service providers to deliver goods or services to us (including as a result of supplier facility closures or access restrictions, disruptions to their supply chains, and supplier liquidity or bankruptcy risk) could further disrupt our ability to provide our services and solutions and result in, among other things, terminations of customer contracts and losses of revenue. Because the COVID-19 pandemic could adversely affect our near-term and long-term revenues, earnings, liquidity and cash flows, we have taken and may be required to redeploy significant cost actions, including but not limited to reducing discretionary expenses (such as non-essential travel, contractors, and consultants), reducing hiring, canceling annual merit increases, reducing executive and board of director pay, reducing work schedules across the enterprise, shortening or staggering work schedules to match production with demand, and reducing staffing levels, as well as increasing supplier-based productivity and enhancing spending-limit controls. However, the extent to which our mitigation efforts are successful, if at all, is not currently ascertainable; also, our costs may not decrease at the same pace as revenue declines 

25 Honeywell International, Inc. 

as many of our costs are less variable in nature, and we may not be able to or may not choose to significantly reduce them in an effort to remain focused on long-term outlook and growth opportunities. Further, our management of the impact of COVID-19 will continue to require significant investment of time from our management and employees, as well as resources across our global enterprise. The focus on managing and mitigating the impacts of COVID-19 on our business may cause us to divert or delay the application of our resources toward new initiatives or investments, which may adversely impact our future results of operations. Issues relating to the COVID-19 pandemic may also result in legal claims or litigation against us. In addition, remote work has increased the frequency of cybersecurity attacks, including phishing and malware attempts that utilize COVID-19-related strategies, increasing the risk of a material cybersecurity incident that could result in the loss of proprietary or personal data, render us more vulnerable to future cybersecurity attacks, disrupt our operations, or otherwise cause us reputational or financial harm. 

&#8226; Liquidity and Cash Flow Risk &#8212;Because of the customer and operations risks described above, our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may need to use existing cash balances to service our debt, and if such balances are insufficient, then we may be required to engage in one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring of existing debt, issuing new debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. 

Due to the daily evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic and the responses to curb its spread, we cannot predict the ultimate impact the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flow. Any recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic impact may be slowed or reversed by a variety of factors, such as, in the United States, the current widespread increase in COVID-19 infections. In addition, even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience adverse impacts to our business as a result of its global economic impact, including the current recession and any recession that may occur in the future. Further, many of the factors disclosed under Risk Factors in this Form 10-K are, and we anticipate will continue to be further, heightened or exacerbated by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. 

A significant percentage of our sales and operations is in non-U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks of international operations. 

Our international operations, including U.S. exports, represent more than half of the Company&#8217;s sales. Risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, antitrust regulations, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as sanctions and embargoes), differing levels of protection of intellectual property, acts of industrial espionage, violations by our employees of anti-corruption laws (despite our efforts to mitigate such risk), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. Instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment and the evolving international and domestic political, regulatory and economic landscape, including the potential for changes in global trade policies, including sanctions and trade barriers, and trends such as populism, economic nationalism and negative sentiment toward multinational companies, as well as the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide, can impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. 

In December 2020, the United Kingdom and the European Union announced they had entered into a post-Brexit deal on certain aspects of trade and other strategic and political issues. Depending on the application of the terms of the trade and cooperation agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union, we could face increased regulatory costs and challenges. The Company has developed plans to mitigate the potential impact of these costs and challenges, but the implications of these uncertainties could affect the Company's business, financial position and results of operations. 

Existing free trade laws and regulations provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports. Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where we manufacture products or from where we import products or raw materials, either directly or through our suppliers, could have an impact on our competitive position and financial results. 

The United States has commenced certain trade actions, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported from China and other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by China and other countries. Additional 

26 Honeywell International, Inc. 

tariffs imposed by the United States on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response, could increase the cost of our products. Given the change in the U.S. presidential administration, we face uncertainty with regard to U.S. government trade policy. 

Operating outside of the United States also exposes us to foreign exchange risk, which we monitor and seek to reduce through hedging activities. However, foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or be successful in eliminating such volatility. Finally, we generate significant amounts of cash outside of the United States that is invested with financial and non-financial counterparties. While we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties with whom we transact business could expose Honeywell to financial loss. 

Operating outside the United States also exposes us to additional intellectual property risk. The laws and enforcement practices of certain jurisdictions in which we operate may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the U.S. and may impose joint venture, technology transfer, local service or other foreign investment requirements and restrictions that potentially compromise control over our technology and proprietary information. Failure of foreign jurisdictions to protect our intellectual property rights, an inability to effectively enforce such rights in foreign jurisdictions, or the imposition of foreign jurisdiction investment or sourcing restrictions or requirements could result in loss of valuable proprietary information and could impact our competitive position and financial results. 

Risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. 

Significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and require cash pension contributions in future periods. Changes in discount rates and actual asset returns different than our anticipated asset returns can result in significant non-cash actuarial gains or losses, which we record in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim re-measurement is triggered. With regard to cash pension contributions, funding requirements for our pension plans are largely dependent upon interest rates, actual investment returns on pension assets and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. 

OPERATIONAL RISKS 

Raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities. 

The cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in Performance Materials and Technologies (copper, fluorspar, tungsten salts, ethylene, aluminum, and molybdenum) and in Aerospace (nickel, steel, titanium and other metals). Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula-driven or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. 

Many major components, product equipment items and raw materials, particularly in Aerospace, are procured or subcontracted on a single or sole-source basis. Although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. Our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers&#8217; inability to scale production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. In addition, current or future global economic uncertainty, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, may affect the financial stability of our key suppliers or their access to financing, which may in turn affect their ability to perform their obligations to us. If one or more of our suppliers experiences financial difficulties, delivery delays or other performance problems, our resulting inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. 

27 Honeywell International, Inc. 

We may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate acquisitions, and divestitures may not occur as planned. 

We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. We may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, including risk of impairment; (ii) the failure to integrate multiple acquired businesses into Honeywell simultaneously and on schedule and/or to achieve expected synergies; (iii) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions; and (iv) the discovery of unanticipated liabilities, labor relations difficulties, cybersecurity concerns, compliance issues or other problems in acquired businesses for which we lack contractual protections, insurance or indemnities, or, with regard to divested businesses, claims by purchasers to whom we have provided contractual indemnification. 

Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance in increasingly competitive markets with acceptable margins. 

Our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify and evolve with emerging technological and broader industry trends in our target end-markets; (ii) develop and maintain competitive products; (iii) defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors, including many new and non-traditional competitors; (iv) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products; (v) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products to market quickly and cost-effectively; (vi) monitor disruptive technologies and business models; (vii) achieve sufficient return on investment for new products introduced based on capital expenditures and research and development spending; (viii) respond to changes in overall trends related to end-market demand; and (ix) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers&#8217; needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products. Competitors may also develop after-market services and parts for our products which attract customers and adversely affect our return on investment for new products. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors or the failure to address any of the above factors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. 

Failure to increase productivity through sustainable operational improvements, as well as an inability to successfully execute repositioning projects or to effectively manage our workforce, may reduce our profitability or adversely impact our businesses. 

Our profitability and margin growth are dependent upon our ability to drive sustainable improvements. We seek productivity and cost savings benefits through repositioning actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive regions and product line rationalizations. Risks associated with these actions include delays in execution, additional unexpected costs, realization of fewer than estimated productivity improvements and adverse effects on employee morale. We may not realize the full operational or financial benefits we expect, the recognition of these benefits may be delayed, and these actions may potentially disrupt our operations. In addition, organizational changes, increased attrition, failure to create and implement a succession plan for key Company positions, not retaining key talent, inability to attract new employees with unique skills, labor relations difficulties, or workforce stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. 

As a supplier to the U.S. Government, we are subject to unique risks, such as the right of the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. 

U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to government audits that may recommend downward price adjustments and other changes. When appropriate and prudent, we made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. 

28 Honeywell International, Inc. 

We are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement and security regulations. If, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including investigation of violations of certain environmental, employment or export laws), Honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, then it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. 

Our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. 

Mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. We continue to incur remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. Various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate the use of certain materials, the discharge of materials into the environment, and/or communications respecting certain materials in our products, and can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require injunctive relief measures, including installation of costly equipment, implementation of operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases, or limiting access of our products to markets, among others. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. 

Global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (IT) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company, its products, its customers and/or its third party service providers, including cloud providers. Our customers, including the U.S. Government, are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the Company. We seek to deploy comprehensive measures to deter, prevent, detect, respond to and mitigate these threats, including identity and access controls, data protection, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems. Despite these efforts, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, litigation with third parties, theft of intellectual property, fines levied by the Federal Trade Commission, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. 

29 Honeywell International, Inc. 

The development of technology products and services presents security and safety risks. 

An increasing number of our products, services and technologies are delivered with Internet of Things (IoT) capabilities and the accompanying interconnected device networks, which include sensors, data and advanced computing capabilities. We have developed product software designs that we believe are less susceptible to cyber-attacks, but despite these efforts, if our products and services that include IoT solutions do not work as intended or are compromised, the possible consequences include financial loss, reputational damage, exposure to legal claims or enforcement actions, theft of intellectual property, and diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. 

Data privacy, data protection, and information security may require significant resources and present certain risks. 

We collect, store, have access to and otherwise process certain confidential or sensitive data, including proprietary business information, personal data or other information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and/or customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect such data, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, or employee errors that could potentially lead to the compromising of such data, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. In addition, we operate in an environment in which there are different and potentially conflicting data privacy laws in effect in the various U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and we must understand and comply with each law and standard in each of these jurisdictions while ensuring the data is secure. For example, the State of California recently passed legislation granting residents certain new data privacy rights and regulating the security of IoT devices, effective in January 2020, and California voters recently approved additional privacy legislation, which provides for the establishment of a California privacy regulator, modifies the current data privacy regulations and imposes additional data protection obligations and is effective in January 2023; European laws require us to have an approved legal mechanism to transfer personal data out of Europe; the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, which became enforceable in May 2018, superseded prior European Union data protection legislation and imposes more stringent requirements in how we collect and process personal data and provides for significantly greater penalties for noncompliance; and several other states and countries have passed or are considering laws that require personal data relating to their residents or citizens to be maintained on local servers and impose additional data transfer restrictions. Government enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the regular operation of our business, and violations of data privacy laws can result in fines, reputational damage and civil lawsuits, any of which may adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. 

A material disruption of our operations, particularly at our manufacturing facilities or within our information technology infrastructure, could adversely affect our business. 

Our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to natural disasters, including hurricanes and floods, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, equipment failures, sabotage, cyber incidents, any potential effects of climate change and adverse weather conditions, labor disputes, critical supply failure, inaccurate downtime forecast, political disruption, and other reasons, which can result in undesirable consequences, including financial losses and damaged relationships with customers. Another public health crises, like a regional or global pandemic, including the COVID-19 pandemic, could again disrupt our supply chain, distribution channels, production facilities, operations and customer demand, which could negatively impact our operations and adversely affect our business. We employ information technology systems and networks to support the business and rely on them to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. Disruptions to our information technology infrastructure from system failures, shutdowns, power outages, telecommunication or utility failures, cybersecurity incidents, and other events, including disruptions at our cloud computing, server, systems and other third party IT service providers, could interfere with our operations, interrupt production and shipments, damage customer and business partner relationships, and negatively impact our reputation. 

30 Honeywell International, Inc. 

Concentrations of credit, counterparty and market risk may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

We maintain long-term contractual relationships with many of our customers, suppliers, and other counterparties. While we monitor the financial health of these counterparties, we are exposed to credit and market risks of such counterparties, including those concentrated in the same or similar industries and geographic regions. Changes in economic conditions, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting recession, could also lead to concerns about the creditworthiness of counterparties in the same or similar industry or geography, impacting our ability to renew our long-term contractual arrangements or collect amounts due under these arrangements. Among other factors, changes in economic conditions could also result in the credit deterioration or insolvency of a significant counterparty. 

Garrett is currently subject to bankruptcy proceedings in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. We have recorded an adjustment against the receivable amounts owed to us under agreements with Garrett, and depending on developments, we may be required to record an additional adjustment in whole or in part (together with a related statement of operations charge) in a future period or periods. 

We regularly review the aggregate carrying value of the reimbursement receivable amounts due from Garrett in connection with our indemnification and reimbursement agreement and our tax matters agreement with Garrett. On September 20, 2020, Garrett and certain of its affiliates filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the Bankruptcy Court). On January 11, 2021, Garrett accepted, in the bankruptcy proceedings, a revised agreement, originally proposed by Oaktree Capital Management, L.P. (Oaktree) and Centerbridge Partners, L.P. (Centerbridge), in coordination with Honeywell, and subsequently signed by additional equity holders that, collectively with the Company, Oaketree, and Centerbridge, represent approximately 58% of Garrett's outstanding common stock and noteholders representing approximately 88% of the principal amount outstanding on Garrett's senior notes (the Final COH Plan). Based on the Final COH Plan, we believe the present value of payments to us under the Final COH Plan are an appropriate estimate of receivable amounts due in connection with the indemnification and reimbursement agreement and the tax matters agreement. There can be no assurance that the Final COH Plan will be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court or that Garrett will be able to substantially consummate the restructuring transactions contemplated in the Final COH Plan. The ultimate outcome of the bankruptcy process is uncertain. Should any of these assumptions change and depending on the transaction and/or plan of reorganization ultimately approved by the Bankruptcy Court, the amount collected could differ from the receivable amounts currently recorded in our financial statements. There can be no assurance that recording an additional adjustment (positive or negative) against the remaining receivable amounts in whole or in part (together with a related statement of operations charge) will not be necessary in a future period or periods. See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 

LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKS 

Our U.S. and non-U.S. tax liabilities are dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which we operate. 

Our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings (or changes in the interpretation thereof), potential taxation of digital services, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. Our tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company, which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. 

31 Honeywell International, Inc. 

Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. 

The sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations, including environmental, safety, performance and product certification regulations. Within Aerospace, the operating results of Commercial Original Equipment and Commercial Aftermarket may be impacted by, among other things, mandates of the Federal Aviation Administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft. Our Defense and Space business unit may be affected by changes in government procurement regulations. Within Honeywell Building Technologies and Safety and Productivity Solutions, the demand for and cost of providing products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. Performance Materials and Technologies&#8217; results of operations can be impacted by environmental standards, regulations, and judicial determinations . Growth in all our businesses within emerging markets may be adversely impacted by the inability to acquire and retain qualified employees where local employment law mandates may be restrictive. Changes in such regulations and government policies could negatively impact us; for instance, noncompliance with legislation and regulations can result in fines and penalties, and compliance with any new regulations or policies may be burdensome and/or require significant expenditures. 

Increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more international, regional and/or federal or other stakeholder requirements or expectations that could mandate more restrictive or expansive standards, such as stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions or more prescriptive reporting of environmental, social, and governance metrics, than the voluntary commitments that the Company has adopted or require such changes on a more accelerated time frame. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty; however, under the new U.S. presidential administration, there likely will be renewed interest in such legislation. If environmental laws or regulations are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company or its products, they could negatively impact the Company&#8217;s business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. 

We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. 

We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, anti-corruption, accounting, import and export, and environmental, health and safety matters. Our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. The incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. 

