>Item 7.

 

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

 

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Report. It contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, particularly under the headings “Item 1A – Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.”

 

General

 

We report our results through four segments: Global Lifestyle, Global Housing, Global Preneed and Corporate and Other. In October 2020, we announced we are exploring strategic alternatives for the Global Preneed business, including the possible sale of the business, to focus on opportunities within the broader Global Lifestyle and Global Housing portfolio. We have since then made progress toward the possible sale of the business; however, there can be no assurance we will complete a sale. Corporate and Other includes activities of the holding company, financing and interest expenses, net realized gains (losses) on investments (which includes unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities and changes in fair value of direct investments in collateralized loan obligations), interest income earned from short-term investments held, income (expenses) primarily related to our frozen benefit plans, amounts related to businesses previously disposed of through reinsurance and the run-off of the Assurant Health business. Corporate and Other also includes goodwill impairments, the foreign currency gains (losses) from remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and other expenses related to merger and acquisition activities, as well as other highly variable or unusual items other than reportable catastrophes (reportable catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance and client profit sharing adjustments, and including reinstatement and other premiums). 

The following discussion covers the year ended December 31, 2020 (“Twelve Months 2020”) and year ended December 31, 2019 (“Twelve Months 2019”). Please see the discussion that follows, for each of these segments, for a more detailed comparative analysis.

 

Our comparative analysis of Twelve Months 2019 and the year ended December 31, 2018 is included under the heading “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the SEC on February 19, 2020.

Executive Summary

COVID-19

As a global organization, we actively monitor the developments of the continuously evolving situation resulting from COVID-19. Throughout this period of uncertainty, we have acted swiftly and deliberately to safeguard our employees, to maintain business operations and service levels for customers, and to support our local communities. See “Item 1 – Business” for additional information. While continuing to evolve, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant global economic and financial market disruption, resulting in increased financial market volatility, business and operational challenges such as the temporary closures of businesses, and overall diminished expectations for the economy and the financial markets. Overall, for Twelve Months 2020, we believe COVID-19 had a modest negative impact on our net income, mainly due to lower investment income from lower yields, lower REO volumes, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and higher mortality rates in our Global Preneed business. This was partially offset by lower expenses, more favorable international claims activity and more favorable non-catastrophe loss experience. Throughout this period, we believe our liquidity has remained strong. As of December 31, 2020, we had $407.2 million of holding company liquidity.

Our investment portfolio will continue to be impacted by COVID-19 and related financial market volatility. Though we generally believe our portfolio remains well diversified and high-quality, with the majority comprised of investment grade fixed maturity assets, interest rates are expected to remain relatively low for the foreseeable future. Refer to “—Investments” below and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.

We ran multiple scenarios based on the potential duration and severity of this crisis to better understand how our business might perform and stress-tested our capital, cash flows and liquidity. Our business performed on the high-end of the scenarios, demonstrating its overall resilience given our installed customer base across Connected Living, Global Automotive, Multifamily Housing and Global Preneed. 

For a discussion of the material risks relating to COVID-19 on our business, results of operations and financial condition, refer to “Item 1A — Risk Factors — Macroeconomic, Political and Global Market Risks — 

The COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.” 

Overview

We have undertaken several acquisitions and dispositions, which are reflected in our results. On December 1, 2020, we acquired HYLA, a leading provider of smartphone software, trade-in and upgrade services, for total consideration of 

46

$348.8 million, a portion of which was excess cash in the business that was distributed to the holding company shortly after closing.  In May 2020, we completed our acquisition of AFAS, a provider of finance and insurance products and services including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset protection insurance and other ancillary products, for total consideration of $176.9 million, a portion of which was excess cash in the business that was distributed to the holding company shortly after closing.

In May 2020, we sold our minority interests in Iké, terminated our obligations to purchase the remaining shares of Iké, and settled a financial derivative that provided an economic hedge against declines in the Mexican Peso relative to the U.S. Dollar. These transactions resulted in net cash outflows of $85.3 million, which included financing of $34.0 million, the proceeds from the settlement of the derivative and transaction expenses. For additional information on this transaction, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources” below and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 

During the third quarter of 2020, we identified impairment indicators impacting the fair value of Global Preneed in connection with exploring strategic alternatives for the Global Preneed business, including the possible sale of the business, to focus on opportunities within the broader Global Lifestyle and Global Housing portfolio. The fair value calculated in third quarter 2020 was lower than the carrying value of the reporting unit, resulting in the impairment of the entire goodwill of $137.8 million related to the Global Preneed reporting unit. For additional information on the impairment test, refer to “— Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill” below and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.

Summary of Financial Results

Consolidated net income attributable to common stockholders increased $59.2 million, or 16%, to $423.1 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $363.9 million for Twelve Months 2019. The increase was primarily driven by $154.6 million of lower after-tax losses from the reduction in fair value of Iké, as well as an $84.4 million one-time tax benefit related to the enactment of the federal CARES Act, which allows the carryback of net operating losses to years taxed at higher rates. The increase was partially offset by the $137.8 million after-tax impairment on the Global Preneed goodwill, as well as a $68.2 million decrease in net realized gains on investments, mostly due to a decline in the fair value of certain collateralized loan obligations and lower net unrealized gains on equity securities.

Global Lifestyle segment net income increased $27.9 million, or 7%, to $437.2 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $409.3 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily driven by Connected Living from growth in mobile subscribers in North America and Asia Pacific, as well as improved extended service contract loss experience. The increase was also due to a $6.7 million after-tax benefit for a client recoverable in Connected Living and $9.2 million of client benefits in Global Automotive. Results were partially offset by lower investment income across all lines of business, unfavorable foreign exchange and declines in Global Financial Services and Other. 

Global Lifestyle net earned premiums, fees and other income increased $243.4 million, or 3%, to $7.34 billion for the Twelve Months 2020 compared with $7.09 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Excluding the $117.0 million lower revenue impact resulting from the July 1, 2020 transition of one of our mobile trade-in and upgrade programs from our recognition of device sales revenue to a flat fee per device, revenue increased 5%, primarily due to continued growth in Global Automotive and Connected Living. The increase was partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange and declines within Global Financial Services and Other. 

Global Housing segment net income decreased $24.9 million, or 10%, to $233.8 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $258.7 million for Twelve Months 2019. Segment net income for Twelve Months 2020 included $137.2 million of reportable catastrophes compared to $40.9 million of reportable catastrophes for Twelve Months 2019. Excluding reportable catastrophes, segment net income increased $71.4 million, primarily due to more favorable non-catastrophe loss experience across all lines of business, including underwriting improvements in sharing economy offerings. The increase was also driven by higher premium rates in Lender-placed Insurance, which were partially offset by a reduction in REO volumes due to foreclosure moratoriums enacted in connection with COVID-19 and fewer policies-in-force. Lower investment income also contributed to the offset. 

Global Housing net earned premiums, fees and other income decreased $56.4 million, or 3%, to $1.98 billion for Twelve Months 2020 compared with $2.03 billion for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to the expected run-off of our small commercial business and declines in Lender-placed Insurance policies-in-force from the previously disclosed financially insolvent client, as well as lower REO volumes. The decrease was partially offset by higher premium rates in Lender-placed Insurance and continued growth within Specialty and Other and Multifamily Housing. 

Global Preneed segment net income decreased $4.2 million, or 8%, to $48.0 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $52.2 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to higher mortality from COVID-19 and lower investment income. This decrease was partially offset by the absence of a $9.9 million after-tax expense related to an out of period adjustment for over-capitalization of deferred acquisition costs occurring over a ten-year period recorded in Twelve Months 2019. 

47

Global Preneed net earned premiums, fees and other income increased $8.5 million, or 4%, to $209.4 million for Twelve Months 2020 compared with $200.9 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to growth in domestic pre-funded funeral policies and prior period sales of the Final Need product. 

Critical Factors Affecting Results

 

Our results depend on, among other things, the appropriateness of our product pricing, underwriting, the accuracy of our reserving methodology for future policyholder benefits and claims, the frequency and severity of reportable and non-reportable catastrophes, returns on and values of invested assets, and our ability to manage our expenses and achieve expense savings. Our results will also depend on our ability to profitably grow all of our businesses, in particular our Connected Living, Multifamily Housing and Global Automotive businesses, and maintain our position in our Lender-placed Insurance business. Factors affecting these items, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto, conditions in financial markets, the global economy and the markets in which we operate, fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and inflation, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For more information on these and other factors that could affect our results, see “Item 1A – Risk Factors.”

 

Our results may also be impacted by our ability to continue to grow in the markets in which we operate, including in our Connected Living, Multifamily Housing and Global Automotive businesses. Our mobile business is subject to volatility in mobile device trade-in volumes based on the actual and anticipated timing of the release of new devices and carrier promotional programs, as well as to changes in consumer preferences. Our Lender-placed Insurance revenues will also be impacted by changes in the housing market. In addition, across many of our businesses, we must respond to the threat of disruption. See “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Business, Strategic and Operational Risks – 

Significant competitive pressures, changes in customer preferences and disruption could adversely affect our results of operations

.”

Management believes that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our needs over the next twelve months, including the ability to pay interest on our debt and dividends on our common and preferred stock.

 

For Twelve Months 2020, net cash provided by operating activities totaled $1.34 billion; net cash used in investing activities totaled $735.2 million; and net cash used in financing activities totaled $264.8 million. We had $2.23 billion in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2020. Please see “ – Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for further details.

 

Revenues

 

We generate revenues primarily from the sale of our insurance policies, service contracts and related products and services and from income earned on our investments. Sales of insurance policies are recognized in revenue as earned premiums while sales of administrative services are recognized as fee income.

 

Under the universal life insurance guidance, income earned on preneed life insurance policies sold after January 1, 2009 are presented within fee income net of policyholder benefits. Under the limited pay insurance guidance, the consideration received on preneed policies sold prior to January 1, 2009 is presented separately as net earned premiums, with policyholder benefits expense shown separately.

Our premium and fee income is supplemented by income earned from our investment portfolio. We recognize revenue from interest payments, dividends, change in market value of equity securities and sales of investments. Currently, our investment portfolio is primarily invested in fixed maturity securities. Both investment income and realized capital gains on these investments can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates.

 

Interest rate volatility can increase or reduce unrealized gains or losses in our investment portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed maturity and short-term investments.

 

The fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us from future investments in fixed maturity securities will generally increase or decrease with interest rates. We also have investments that are subject to pre-payment risk, such as mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. Interest rate fluctuations may cause actual net investment income and/or cash flows from such investments to differ from estimates made at the time of investment. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage obligations and bonds are more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Therefore, in these circumstances we may be required to reinvest those funds in lower interest-earning investments.

 

Expenses

 

48

Our expenses are primarily policyholder benefits, underwriting, general and administrative expenses and interest expense.

 

Policyholder benefits are affected by our claims management programs, reinsurance coverage, contractual terms and conditions, regulatory requirements, economic conditions, and numerous other factors. Benefits paid or reserves required for future benefits could substantially exceed our expectations, causing a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Underwriting, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, licenses, fees, amortization of deferred costs, general operating expenses and income taxes.

 

We continue to undertake various expense savings initiatives while also making investments in information technology, among other things, which will impact our expenses.

We also incur interest expense related to our debt.

 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Certain items in our Consolidated Financial Statements are based on estimates and judgment. Differences between actual results and these estimates could in some cases have material impacts on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

The following critical accounting policies require significant estimates. The actual amounts realized in these areas could ultimately be materially different from the amounts currently provided for in our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reserves

Reserves are established using generally accepted actuarial methods and reflect judgments about expected future claim payments. Factors used in their calculation include experience derived from historical claim payments and actuarial assumptions.  Calculations incorporate assumptions about the incidence of incurred claims, the extent to which all claims have been reported, reporting lags, expenses, inflation rates, future investment earnings, internal claims processing costs and other relevant factors. While the methods of making such estimates and establishing the related liabilities are periodically reviewed and updated, the estimation of reserves includes an element of uncertainty given that management is using historical information and methods to project future events and reserve outcomes.

 

The recorded reserves represent our best estimate at a point in time of the ultimate costs of settlement and administration of a claim or group of claims, based upon actuarial assumptions and projections using facts and circumstances known at the time of calculation. The adequacy of reserves may be impacted by future trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by both external and internal events, including, but not limited to:  changes in the economic cycle, inflation, changes in repair costs, natural or human-made catastrophes, judicial trends, legislative changes and claims handling procedures.

Many of these items are not directly quantifiable and not all future events can be anticipated when reserves are established. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops. Adjustments to reserves, both positive and negative, are reflected in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which such estimates are updated.

 

Because establishment of reserves is an inherently complex process involving significant judgment and estimates, there can be no certainty that future settlement amounts for claims incurred through the financial reporting date will not vary from reported claims reserves. Future loss development could require reserves to be increased or decreased, which could have a material effect on our earnings in the periods in which such increases or decreases are made. However, based on information currently available, we believe our reserve estimates are adequate.  See “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – 

Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, requiring us to establish additional reserves or to incur additional expense for settling unreserved liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, profitability and capital

” for more detail on this risk. 

For additional information regarding our reserves, see Notes 2 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.

Short Duration Contracts

 

Claims and benefits payable reserves for short duration contracts include (1) case reserves for known claims which are unpaid as of the balance sheet date; (2) IBNR reserves for claims where the insured event has occurred but has not been reported to us as of the balance sheet date; and (3) loss adjustment expense reserves for the expected handling costs of settling the claims. Periodically, we review emerging experience and make adjustments to our reserves and assumptions where necessary. Below are further discussions on the reserving process for our major short duration products.

 

Global Lifestyle and Global Housing 

49

Ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses are estimated utilizing generally accepted actuarial loss reserving methods. Both paid claims development as well as case incurred development are typically analyzed at the product or product grouping level, considering product size and data credibility. The reserving methods widely employed by us include the Chain Ladder, Munich Chain Ladder and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods. For Global Housing, reportable catastrophes are analyzed and reserved for separately using a frequency and severity approach. 

The methods all involve aggregating paid and case-incurred loss data by accident quarter (or accident year) and accident age for each product grouping. As the data ages, development factors are calculated that measure emerging claim development patterns between reporting periods. By selecting loss development factors indicative of remaining development, known losses are projected to an ultimate incurred basis for each accident period. The underlying premise of the Chain Ladder method is that future claims development is best estimated using past claims development, whereas the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method employs a combination of past claims development and prior estimates of ultimate losses based on an expected loss ratio. The Munich Chain Ladder method incorporates the correlations between paid and incurred development in projecting future development factors, and is typically more applicable to products experiencing variability in incurred to paid ratios. 

Each of these methods applied to the data groupings produces an estimate of the loss reserves for the product grouping. The best estimate is generally selected from a blend of the different methods. The IBNR associated with the best estimate is then allocated to accident year based on a weighting of the underlying actuarial methods. The determination of the best estimate is based on many factors, including but not limited to:

  

•

the nature and extent of the underlying assumptions;

•

the quality and applicability of historical data - whether internal or industry data;

•

current and expected future economic and market conditions;

•

regulatory, legislative, and judicial considerations;

•

the extent of data segmentation - data should be homogeneous yet credible enough for loss development methods to apply;

•

trends in loss frequencies and severities for various causes of loss;

•

consideration of the distribution of loss reserves, management’s selection of the best estimate that may exceed an estimate based on median values, suggesting that favorable development may be more likely than unfavorable development; and 

•

hindsight testing of prior loss estimates - the loss estimates on some product lines will vary from actual loss experience more than others.

When employing the reserving methods, consideration is given to contractual requirements, historical utilization trends and payment patterns, coverage changes, seasonality, product mix, the legislative and regulatory environment, economic factors, natural catastrophes and other relevant factors. We consistently apply reserving principles and methodologies from year to year, while also giving due consideration to the potential variability of these factors. 

While management has used judgment in establishing its best estimate of required reserves, different assumptions and variables could lead to significantly different reserve estimates. Two key measures of loss activity are loss frequency, which is a measure of the number of claims per unit of insured exposure, and loss severity, which is a measure of the average size of claims. Factors affecting loss frequency include the effectiveness of loss controls, changes in economic activity and weather patterns. Factors affecting loss severity include changes in policy limits, retentions, rate of inflation and judicial interpretations.

 

If the actual level of loss frequency and severity are higher or lower than expected, the ultimate reserves required will be different than management’s estimate. The effect of higher and lower levels of loss frequency and severity on our ultimate costs for claims occurring in 2020 would be as follows:

Change in both loss frequency and severity

for all Global Lifestyle and Global Housing

Ultimate cost of claims

occurring in 2020

Change in cost of claims

occurring in 2020

3% higher

$

1,251.0 

$

71.5 

2% higher

$

1,227.0 

$

47.5 

1% higher

$

1,203.0 

$

23.5 

Base scenario (1)

$

1,179.5 

$

— 

1% lower

$

1,156.0 

$

(23.5)

2% lower

$

1,132.0 

$

(47.5)

3% lower

$

1,108.0 

$

(71.5)

(1)

Represents the sum of the case reserves and incurred but not reported reserves as of December 31, 2020 for Global Lifestyle and Global Housing.

 

50

Disposed and Runoff Short Duration Lines

 

We have exposure to asbestos, environmental and other general liability claims arising from our participation in various reinsurance pools from 1971 through 1985. This exposure arose from a contract that we discontinued writing many years ago. We carried case reserves for these liabilities, as recommended by the various pool managers, and IBNR reserves totaling $22.1 million (before reinsurance) and $19.1 million (net of reinsurance) at December 31, 2020. Estimation of these liabilities is subject to greater than normal variation and uncertainty due to the general lack of sufficiently detailed data, reporting delays and absence of a generally accepted actuarial methodology for determining the exposures. There are significant unresolved industry legal issues, including such items as whether coverage exists and what constitutes an occurrence. In addition, the determination of ultimate damages and the final allocation of losses to financially responsible parties are highly uncertain. Based on information currently available, and after consideration of the reserves reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements, we do not believe or expect that changes in reserve estimates for these claims are likely to be material. 

Long Duration Contracts 

Reserves for future policy benefits represent the present value of future benefits to policyholders and related expenses less the present value of future net premiums. Reserve assumptions reflect best estimates for expected investment yield, inflation, mortality, morbidity, expenses and withdrawal rates. These assumptions are based on our experience to the extent it is credible, modified where appropriate to reflect current trends, industry experience and provisions for possible unfavorable deviation. We also record an unearned revenue reserve which represents premiums received which have not yet been recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. 

Historically, premium deficiency testing on continuing lines of business has not resulted in material adjustments to deferred acquisition costs or reserves. Such adjustments could occur, however, if economic or mortality conditions significantly deteriorated. 

Global Preneed 

Global Preneed includes pre-funded funeral (“preneed”) life insurance and annuity contracts and legacy traditional life insurance (no longer offered). The reserve assumptions for future policy benefits and expenses are determined based upon pricing, which approximates actual experience. 

For preneed life insurance issued after 2008 with discretionary death benefit growth, the universal life-type accounting model is applied whereby reserve assumptions are made without provision for adverse deviation.  Interest and discount rates are based upon investment returns of the assets acquired to support the business.  Expected mortality rates, lapse rates, and future death benefit increases are based upon pricing assumptions.  

For preneed life insurance issued after 2008 with either no death benefit growth or death benefit growth linked to an inflation index, the long-duration accounting model is applied whereby reserve assumptions are made with provision for adverse deviation.  Interest and discount rates are based upon investment returns of the assets acquired to support the business.  Expected mortality rates and lapse rates are based upon pricing assumptions.  For contracts with minimum benefit increases associated with an inflation index, the reserves assume expected benefit increases equal to a selected discount rate less a spread. 

For preneed life insurance issued prior to 2009, the long-duration accounting model is applied whereby reserve assumptions are made with provision for adverse deviation.  Interest and discount rates are based upon investment returns of the assets acquired to support the business.  Expected mortality rates, lapse rates and future death benefit increases are based upon pricing assumptions. 

Annuity contracts have reserve assumptions made without provision for adverse deviation.  Assumed discount rates and interest rates credited on deferred annuities vary by year of issue.  Withdrawal charge assumptions are based upon contract provisions.  Nearly all of the deferred annuity contracts have a minimum guaranteed interest rate. 

For life insurance and annuity contracts acquired in 2000 and prior, interest and discount rates as well as mortality assumptions are based on statutory valuation requirements, which approximate the GAAP valuation requirements, with no explicit provision for lapses.

Disposed and Runoff Long Duration Lines

Risks related to the reserves recorded for certain discontinued individual life, annuity and long-term care insurance policies have been fully ceded via reinsurance. While we have not been released from our contractual obligation to the policyholders, changes in and deviations from economic, mortality, morbidity, and withdrawal assumptions used in the calculation of these reserves will not directly affect our results of operations unless there is a default by the assuming reinsurer. 

51

Deferred Acquisition Costs (“DAC”) and Value of Business Acquired (“VOBA”) 

Only direct incremental costs associated with the successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts are deferred to the extent that such costs are deemed recoverable from future premiums or gross profits. Acquisition costs primarily consist of commissions and premium taxes.  Certain direct response advertising expenses are deferred when the primary purpose of the advertising is to elicit sales to customers who can be shown to have specifically responded to the advertising and the direct response advertising results in probable future benefits.

 

Premium deficiency testing is performed annually and generally reviewed quarterly. Such testing involves the use of best estimate assumptions including the anticipation of investment income to determine if anticipated future policy premiums are adequate to recover all DAC and related claims, benefits and expenses. To the extent a premium deficiency exists, it is recognized immediately by a charge to the consolidated statement of operations and a corresponding reduction in DAC. If the premium deficiency is greater than unamortized DAC, a loss (and related liability) is recorded for the excess deficiency.

 

Long Duration Contracts

 

Acquisition costs for pre-funded funeral life insurance policies issued prior to 2009 and certain life insurance policies no longer offered are deferred and amortized in proportion to anticipated premiums over the premium-paying period. These acquisition costs consist primarily of first year commissions paid to agents.

 

For preneed investment-type annuities, preneed life insurance policies with discretionary death benefit growth issued after January 1, 2009, universal life insurance policies and investment-type annuities no longer offered, DAC is amortized in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits from investment, mortality, expense margins and surrender charges over the estimated life of the policy or contract. Estimated gross profits include the impact of unrealized gains or losses on investments as if these gains or losses had been realized, with corresponding credits or charges included in AOCI. The assumptions used for the estimates are consistent with those used in computing the policy or contract liabilities.

Short Duration Contracts

Acquisition costs relating to extended service contracts, vehicle service contracts, mobile device protection, credit insurance, lender-placed homeowners insurance and flood, multifamily housing and manufactured housing are amortized over the term of the contracts in relation to premiums earned. These acquisition costs consist primarily of advance commissions paid to agents.

Acquisition costs relating to disposed lines of business (group term life, group disability, group dental and group vision) consist primarily of compensation to sales representatives. Such costs are deferred and amortized over the estimated terms of the underlying contracts.

 

VOBA

As part of the acquisition of businesses that sell long-term extended service contracts, such as warranty contracts sold by TWG, and long-duration insurance contracts, such as life products, we establish an intangible asset related to VOBA, which represents the fair value of the expected future profits in unearned premium for insurance contracts acquired. For vehicle service contracts and extended service contracts such as those purchased in connection with the TWG acquisition, the amount is determined using estimates, for premium earnings patterns, paid loss development patterns, expense loads, and discount rates applied to cash flows that include a provision for credit risk. For vehicle service contracts and extended service contracts, VOBA is amortized consistent with the premium earning patterns of the underlying in-force contracts. For limited payment policies, preneed life insurance policies, universal life policies and annuities, the valuation of VOBA at the time of acquisition is derived from similar assumptions to those used to establish the associated claim or benefit reserves and is amortized over the expected life of the policies. 

Investments

 

For available for sale fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position for which we do not intend to sell or for which it is more likely than not that we would not be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, we evaluate whether the decline in fair value has resulted from credit losses or other factors. In making this assessment, we consider the extent to which fair value is less than amortized cost basis, changes to the credit rating of the security by a nationally recognized statistical ratings organization and any adverse conditions specifically related to the security, industry or geographic area, among other factors. If this assessment indicates a potential credit loss may exist, the present value of cash flows expected to be collected are compared to the security’s amortized cost basis. If the present value of cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost basis, a credit-related impairment exists, and a charge to income and an associated allowance for credit losses is recorded for the credit-related impairment. Any impairment not related to credit losses is recorded through other comprehensive income. The amount of the allowance for credit losses is limited to the amount by which fair value is less than the amortized cost basis. Upon recognizing a credit-related impairment, the cost basis of the security is not adjusted. 

52

Subsequent changes in the allowance for credit losses are recorded as a provision for, or reversal of, credit loss expense. For fixed maturities where we record a credit loss, a determination is made as to the cause of the impairment and whether we expect a recovery in the value. Write-offs are charged against the allowance when management concludes the financial asset is uncollectible. For fixed maturities where we expect a recovery in value, the effective yield method is utilized, and the investment is amortized to par. We recorded a $1.5 million allowance for credit losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale for the year ended December 31, 2020.

For available for sale fixed maturity securities that we intend to sell, or for which it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell before recovery of our amortized cost basis, the entire impairment loss, or difference between the fair value and amortized cost basis of the security, is recognized in net realized gains (losses). The new cost basis of the security is the previous amortized cost basis less the impairment recognized and is not adjusted for any subsequent recoveries in fair value. 

See also Notes 2, 5 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report, “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – 

Our investment portfolio is subject to market risk, including changes in interest rates that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition

” and “ – Investments” contained in this Item 7.

 

Reinsurance

Reinsurance recoverables were $9.84 billion and $9.59 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which include amounts we are owed by reinsurers for claims paid as well as those included in reserve estimates that are subject to the reinsurance. Reinsurance premiums paid are amortized as reductions to premium over the terms of the underlying reinsured policies. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. We use a probability of default and loss given default methodology in estimating the allowance, whereby the credit ratings of reinsurers are used in determining the probability of default. The allowance is established for reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid future policy benefits and claims and benefits. Prior to applying default factors, the net exposure to credit risk is reduced for any collateral for which the right of offset exists, such as funds withheld, assets held in trust and letters of credit, which are part of the reinsurance arrangements, with adjustments to include consideration of credit exposure on the collateral. Our methodology incorporates historical default factors for each reinsurer based on their credit rating using comparably rated bonds as published by a major ratings service. The allowance is based upon our ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing and other relevant factors. 

We have used reinsurance to exit certain businesses, including Assurant Employee Benefits and blocks of individual life, annuity and long-term care business. The reinsurance recoverables relating to these dispositions amounted to $4.42 billion and $4.46 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

 

In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in both the assumption and cession of reinsurance with non-affiliated companies. The following table provides details of the reinsurance recoverables balance as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:

2020

2019

Ceded future policyholder benefits and expense

$

3,316.9 

$

3,329.3 

Ceded unearned premium

4,579.8 

4,248.1 

Ceded claims and benefits payable

1,856.7 

1,895.5 

Ceded paid losses

86.5 

120.5 

Total

$

9,839.9 

$

9,593.4 

We utilize reinsurance for loss protection and capital management, business dispositions and, in Global Lifestyle and Global Housing, client risk and profit sharing. See also Notes 2, 5 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report, “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – 

Reinsurance may not be adequate or available to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers

” and “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Credit Risk.”

 

Retirement and Other Employee Benefits

 

We have sponsored a qualified pension plan (the “Assurant Pension Plan”) and various non-qualified pension plans (including an Executive Pension Plan), along with a retirement health benefits plan covering our employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. Effective March 1, 2016, benefit accruals for the Assurant Pension Plan, the various non-qualified pension plans and the retirement health benefits plan were frozen. The reported amounts associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions, which include, but are not limited to, the discount rate and expected return on plan assets. We determine these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, and historical performance of the plan and its assets. The actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of our aggregate projected benefit obligation vary and include 

53

an expectation of long-term appreciation in equity markets, which is not changed by minor short-term market fluctuations, but does change when large prolonged interim deviations occur. The assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants.

In February 2020, we amended the Retirement Health Benefits to terminate effective December 31, 2024 (the “Termination Date”). Benefits will be paid up to the Termination Date. The Retirement Health Benefits obligations were re-measured using a discount rate of 1.55%, selected based on a cash flow analysis using a bond yield curve as of February 29, 2020, and the fair market value of the Retirement Health Benefits assets as of February 29, 2020. The remeasurement resulted in a reduction to the Retirement Health Benefits obligations of $65.6 million and a corresponding prior service credit in AOCI, which will be reclassified from AOCI as it is amortized in the net periodic benefit cost over the remaining period until the Termination Date. 

Contingencies

 

A loss contingency is recorded if reasonably estimable and probable. We establish reserves for these contingencies at the best estimate, or if no one estimated amount within the range of possible losses is more probable than any other, we record an estimated reserve at the low end of the estimated range. Contingencies affecting us primarily relate to legal and regulatory matters, which are inherently difficult to evaluate and are subject to significant changes.

 

Deferred Taxes

 

Deferred income taxes are recorded for temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities, based on enacted tax laws and statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which we expect the temporary differences to reverse. A valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets if, based on the weight of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the asset will not be realized. The valuation allowance is sufficient to reduce the asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. We have deferred tax assets resulting from temporary differences that may reduce taxable income in future periods. The detailed components of our deferred tax assets, liabilities and valuation allowance are included in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.

As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had a cumulative valuation allowance of $27.6 million and $76.6 million, respectively, against deferred tax assets of international subsidiaries. The change during the period is primarily related to an additional valuation allowance established on the investment in Iké of $6.7 million and the derecognition of the total valuation allowance of $56.5 million on the investment in Iké as the investment was sold in a manner that resulted in the loss of tax benefits. The realization of deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards of international subsidiaries depends upon the existence of sufficient future taxable income of the same character in the same jurisdiction. 

In determining whether the deferred tax asset is realizable, we weighed all available evidence, both positive and negative. We considered all sources of taxable income available to realize the asset, including the future reversal of existing temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences, carry forwards and tax-planning strategies.

We believe it is more likely than not that the remainder of our deferred tax assets will be realized.  Accordingly, other than as noted herein for certain international subsidiaries, a valuation allowance has not been established.

Future reversal of the valuation allowance will be recognized either when the benefit is realized or when we determine that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be realized. Depending on the nature of the taxable income that results in a reversal of the valuation allowance, and on management’s judgment, the reversal will be recognized either through other comprehensive income (loss) or through continuing operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Likewise, if we determine that it is not more likely than not that we would be able to realize all or part of the deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded through a charge to continuing operations in the consolidated statements of operations in the period such determination is made.

In determining the appropriate valuation allowance, management makes judgments about recoverability of deferred tax assets, use of tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, levels of expected future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. The assumptions used in making these judgments are updated periodically by management based on current business conditions that affect us and overall economic conditions. These management judgments are therefore subject to change based on factors that include, but are not limited to, changes in expected capital gain income in the foreseeable future and our ability to successfully execute our tax planning strategies. See also “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – 

The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition

.”

 

Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill

 

54

Our goodwill related to acquisitions of businesses was $2.59 billion and $2.34 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  We review our goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Such indicators include, but are not limited to: a significant adverse change in legal factors, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel or a significant decline in our expected future cash flows due to changes in company-specific factors or the broader business climate. The evaluation of such factors requires considerable management judgment. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill and could have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is either at the operating segment or one level below, if that component is a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews such information. Components within an operating segment can be aggregated into one reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics.  A goodwill impairment loss is measured as the excess of the carrying value, including goodwill, of the reporting unit over its fair value.  An impairment loss is limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. 

Our Global Lifestyle operating segment is disaggregated into the following three reporting units: Connected Living, Global Automotive and Global Financial Services and Other. Our reporting units for goodwill testing were at the same level as the operating segment for Global Housing and Global Preneed. 

The following table illustrates the amount of goodwill carried by operating segment as of the dates indicated:

 

December 31,

 

2020

2019

Global Lifestyle (1)

$

2,209.8 

$

1,825.9 

Global Housing

379.5 

379.5 

Global Preneed

— 

138.0 

Total

$

2,589.3 

$

2,343.4 

 (1) As of December 31, 2020, $715.2 million, $1,421.3 million and $73.3 million of goodwill was assigned to the Connected Living, Global Automotive and Global Financial Services and Other reporting unit, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, $461.5 million, $1,291.7 million, and $72.7 million of goodwill was assigned to the Connected Living, Global Automotive and Global Financial Services and Other reporting unit, respectively. 

Global Preneed Goodwill Impairment

During the third quarter of 2020, the Company identified impairment indicators impacting the fair value of the Global Preneed reportable segment in connection with exploring strategic alternatives for the Global Preneed business, including the possible sale of the business, to focus on opportunities within the Global Lifestyle and Global Housing segments. Such impairment indicators included the evaluation of the long-term economic performance of the segment in light of further expected declines in interest rates from the resurgence of COVID-19 cases. As interest rates are critical to the performance of the business, the anticipated long-term declines in interest rates were expected to have adverse impacts on existing business and cause significant challenges to profitability from new business. The overall expected adverse impact to the business in the segment was an important indicator that triggered the requirement for an interim goodwill impairment analysis in the third quarter of 2020. As a result, an updated fair value assessment was completed based on how a market participant would consider the long-term outlook for business performance, long-term forecasts of the interest rate environment and its impact on the fair value of liabilities.

The fair value of the reportable segment was determined using a discounted cash flow method which calculated the present value of future earnings developed from projected earnings arising from existing and new business and considered all aspects of the business including investment assumptions of asset portfolios. The fair value calculated in the third quarter of 2020 was lower than the carrying value of the reportable segment, resulting in the pre-tax and after-tax impairment charge of the entire goodwill of $137.8 million related to the segment. The goodwill impairment charge is reported separately in the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020, with a corresponding reduction to goodwill in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. 

Quantitative Impairment Testing

In the fourth quarter of 2020, we performed a quantitative assessment for the Global Lifestyle and Global Housing reporting units given the uncertainty in macro-economic conditions and the overall industry performance due to COVID-19 impacts. Based on this quantitative assessment, the Company determined that it was more likely than not that the reporting units’ fair values were more than their carrying amounts and that there was no impairment for the Global Lifestyle and Global Housing reporting units as of October 1, 2020.

The determination of fair value of the reporting units requires many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, earnings and required capital projections discussed above, discount rates, terminal 

55

growth rates, operating income and dividend forecasts for each reporting unit and the weighting assigned to the results of each of the three valuation methods described above. Changes in certain assumptions could have a significant impact on the goodwill impairment assessment.

Should the operating results of these reporting units decline substantially compared to projected results, or should further interest rate declines increase the net unrealized investment portfolio gain position, we could determine that we need to perform an updated impairment test due to the potential impairment indicators, which may require the recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in any of the reporting units.

For the fourth quarter of 2020 quantitative assessment, had the net book value for any of the reporting units, aside from Global Preneed, exceeded its estimated fair value, the Company would have recognized a goodwill impairment loss for the difference up to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.

Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further detail.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Please see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 

Results of Operations

 

Assurant Consolidated

Overview

The table below presents information regarding our consolidated results of operations:

 

For the Years Ended December 31,

 

2020

2019

Revenues:

Net earned premiums

$

8,342.7 

$

8,020.0 

Fees and other income

1,182.7 

1,311.2 

Net investment income

574.9 

675.0 

Net realized (losses) gains on investments

(16.2)

66.3 

Amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses

10.7 

14.3 

Total revenues

10,094.8 

10,086.8 

Benefits, losses and expenses:

Policyholder benefits

2,549.3 

2,654.7 

Amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired

3,672.0 

3,322.1 

Underwriting, general and administrative expenses

3,110.0 

3,250.5 

Goodwill impairment

137.8 

— 

Iké net losses

5.9 

163.0 

Interest expense

104.5 

110.6 

Loss on extinguishment of debt

— 

31.4 

Total benefits, losses and expenses

9,579.5 

9,532.3 

Income before provision for income taxes

515.3 

554.5 

Provision for income taxes

72.6 

167.7 

Net income

442.7 

386.8 

Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest

(0.9)

(4.2)

Net income attributable to stockholders

441.8 

382.6 

Less: Preferred stock dividends

(18.7)

(18.7)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

423.1 

$

363.9 

Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019

Net Income Attributable to Common Stockholders

56

Consolidated net income attributable to common stockholders increased $59.2 million, or 16%, to $423.1 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $363.9 million for Twelve Months 2019. Net income for Twelve Months 2020 included $137.2 million of reportable catastrophes, due to several storms in 2020 including Hurricane Laura, compared to $41.0 million in Twelve Months 2019. Excluding reportable catastrophes, net income increased $155.4 million, or 38%, due to $154.6 million of lower after-tax losses from decreases in the estimated fair value of Iké, an $84.4 million tax benefit related to the utilization of net operating losses in connection with the CARES Act, an improvement in our results from Global Housing and Global Lifestyle and the absence of $29.6 million of after-tax debt related charges from Twelve Months 2019. These increases were partially offset by the $137.8 million after-tax impairment on the Global Preneed goodwill and a $68.2 million after-tax decrease in net realized gains on investments mostly due to a decrease in net unrealized gains on equity securities and higher unrealized losses from the decrease in fair value of collateralized loan obligations, as well as $21.5 million of after-tax direct and incremental operating expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic.

Global Lifestyle  

Overview

 

The table below presents information regarding the Global Lifestyle segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated:

 

For the Years Ended December 31,

 

2020

2019

Revenues:

Net earned premiums

$

6,442.2 

$

6,073.7 

Fees and other income

895.4 

1,020.5 

Net investment income

194.3 

250.8 

Total revenues

7,531.9 

7,345.0 

Benefits, losses and expenses:

Policyholder benefits

1,412.6 

1,516.2 

Amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired

3,365.9 

3,015.7 

Underwriting, general and administrative expenses

2,189.1 

2,277.6 

Total benefits, losses and expenses

6,967.6 

6,809.5 

Segment income before provision for income taxes

564.3 

535.5 

Provision for income taxes

127.1 

126.2 

Segment net income

$

437.2 

$

409.3 

Net earned premiums, fees and other income:

Connected Living (mobile and service contracts)

$

3,836.6 

$

3,768.4 

Global Automotive

3,113.0 

2,873.6 

Global Financial Services and Other

388.0 

452.2 

Total

$

7,337.6 

$

7,094.2 

Net earned premiums, fees and other income:

Domestic 

$

5,408.3 

$

5,020.1 

International

1,929.3 

2,074.1 

Total

$

7,337.6 

$

7,094.2 

Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019

Net Income

Segment net income increased $27.9 million, or 7%, to $437.2 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $409.3 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily driven by our Connected Living business, mainly due to continued mobile subscriber growth in North America and Asia Pacific and improved extended service contract loss experience, as well as higher income and organic growth from our Global Automotive business. These increases were partially offset by lower investment income and unfavorable foreign exchange. Additionally, our Global Financial Services and Other business has lower income, mainly due to 

57

lower volumes and higher loss experience, primarily resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, and anticipated declines from domestic business in run-off. 

Total Revenues

Total revenues increased $186.9 million, or 3%, to $7.53 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $7.35 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Net earned premiums increased $368.5 million, or 6%, primarily driven by continued growth from prior period production in our Global Automotive business and growth in our Connected Living business, mainly due to growth in domestic extended service contract programs and continued subscriber growth from mobile protection programs. These increases in net earned premiums were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange and a decrease in our Global Financial Services and Other business, mainly due to domestic business in run-off. Fees and other income decreased $125.1 million, or 12%, primarily driven by lower mobile trade-in results, mainly due to a $117.0 million impact resulting from the previously mentioned mobile program contract change. Net investment income decreased $56.5 million, or 23%, primarily due to lower cash yields, lower invested asset balances, lower income from real estate and unfavorable foreign exchange.

Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses

Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $158.1 million, or 2%, to $6.97 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $6.81 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired increased $350.2 million, or 12%, primarily due to growth from our Global Automotive and Connected Living businesses.  This increase was partially offset by a decrease in policyholder benefits of $103.6 million, or 7%, primarily driven by a favorable mix of mobile business, lower loss experience within our Connected Living and Global Automotive businesses, in part due to COVID-19, partially offset by an increase from growth in those businesses. Underwriting, general and administrative expenses decreased $88.5 million, or 4%, primarily due to a mobile program contract change, as mentioned above, favorable foreign exchange and expense initiatives across the segment, partially offset by an increase from growth in our Global Automotive and Connected Living businesses, including new acquisitions. 

Global Housing 

Overview

The table below presents information regarding the Global Housing segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated:

 

For the Years Ended December 31,

 

2020

2019

Revenues:

Net earned premiums

$

1,833.6 

$

1,885.1 

Fees and other income

143.7 

148.6 

Net investment income

72.8 

95.2 

Total revenues

2,050.1 

2,128.9 

Benefits, losses and expenses:

Policyholder benefits

852.1 

869.5 

Amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired

225.6 

221.5 

Underwriting, general and administrative expenses

677.3 

711.6 

Total benefits, losses and expenses

1,755.0 

1,802.6 

Segment income before provision for income taxes

295.1 

326.3 

Provision for income taxes

61.3 

67.6 

Segment net income

$

233.8 

$

258.7 

Net earned premiums, fees and other income:

Lender-placed Insurance

$

1,052.5 

$

1,109.2 

Multifamily Housing

451.6 

429.2 

Specialty and Other

473.2 

495.3 

Total

$

1,977.3 

$

2,033.7 

58

Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019  

Net Income

Segment net income decreased $24.9 million, or 10%, to $233.8 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $258.7 million for Twelve Months 2019. Segment net income for Twelve Months 2020 included $137.2 million of reportable catastrophes, due to several storms in 2020, compared to $40.9 million in Twelve Months 2019. Excluding reportable catastrophes, segment net income increased $71.4 million, or 24%, primarily driven by favorable non-catastrophe losses across all major lines of businesses, including underwriting improvements in sharing economy offerings.  The increase was also driven by higher premium rates in our Lender-placed Insurance business, the absence of losses from our small commercial product and lower operating expenses in our Lender-placed Insurance business. The increase was partially offset by lower REO volume and fee income in our Lender-placed Insurance business, fewer policies in-force from a financially insolvent client and lower investment income.  

Total Revenues

Total revenues decreased $78.8 million, or 4%, to $2.05 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $2.13 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Net earned premiums decreased $51.5 million, or 3%, primarily due to declines in our Lender-placed Insurance business, declines in our small commercial business, a reduction in policies in-force for a financially insolvent client and lower REO volume. This decrease was partially offset by premium rate increases in our Lender-placed Insurance business, continued growth from renters insurance in our Multifamily Housing business and growth from our Specialty and Other business, mainly sharing economy products. Net investment income decreased $22.4 million, or 24%, primarily due to lower income from real estate related investments, lower cash yields and a decrease in invested assets. Fees and other income decreased $4.9 million, or 3%, primarily due to a decline in our Lender-placed Insurance business, mostly due to lower loss draft volume.    

Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses

Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $47.6 million, or 3%, to $1.76 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $1.80 billion for Twelve Months 2019. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $34.3 million, or 5%, in underwriting, general and administrative expenses, primarily due to lower employment related expenses in our Lender-placed Insurance business. Policyholder benefits decreased $17.4 million, or 2%, mainly from lower non-catastrophe losses across all major lines of businesses and the absence of losses from our small commercial product, partially offset by higher reportable catastrophe losses. 

Global Preneed

Overview

The table below presents information regarding the Global Preneed segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated:

For the Years Ended December 31,

2020

2019

Revenues:

Net earned premiums

$

66.9 

$

61.2 

Fees and other income

142.5 

139.7 

Net investment income

282.0 

285.3 

Total revenues

491.4 

486.2 

Benefits, losses and expenses:

Policyholder benefits

284.4 

269.0 

Amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired

80.5 

84.9 

Underwriting, general and administrative expenses

66.3 

67.3 

Total benefits, losses and expenses

431.2 

421.2 

Segment income before provision for income taxes

60.2 

65.0 

Provision for income taxes

12.2 

12.8 

Segment net income

$

48.0 

$

52.2 

59

Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019

Net Income

Segment net income decreased $4.2 million, or 8%, to $48.0 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $52.2 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to higher mortality from COVID-19, a decrease in investment income, an increase in Final Need policy cancellations in the fourth quarter of 2020, partly due to COVID-19, and updated assumptions for the earnings patterns of new policies. These decreases were partially offset by the absence of a $9.9 million after-tax expense related to an out of period adjustment for over-capitalization of deferred acquisition costs occurring over a ten-year period recorded in Twelve Months 2019.

Total Revenues

Total revenues increased $5.2 million, or 1%, to $491.4 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $486.2 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to growth in domestic pre-funded funeral policies in the U.S. and sales of the Final Need product, partially offset by lower investment income, mainly due to lower income from real estate and lower yielding new money fixed maturity securities purchases.

Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses 

Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $10.0 million, or 2%, to $431.2 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $421.2 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to a $15.4 million, or 6%, increase in policyholder benefits, mainly driven by the growth in the domestic preneed business.

 

This increase was partially offset by a $4.4 million, or 5%, decrease in amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired, primarily due to the absence of a $14.2 million expense recorded in Twelve Months 2019 related to an out of period adjustment for over-capitalization of deferred acquisition costs occurring over a ten-year period, partially offset by growth in the domestic preneed business and higher amortization resulting from the increase in Final Need policy cancellations in the fourth quarter of 2020.

60

Corporate and Other

Overview

The table below presents information regarding the Corporate and Other segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated:

 

For the Years Ended December 31,

 

2020

2019

Revenues:

Fees and other income

1.1 

2.4 

Net investment income

25.8 

43.7 

Net realized (losses) gains on investments 

(16.2)

66.3 

Amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses

10.7 

14.3 

Total revenues

21.4 

126.7 

Benefits, losses and expenses:

Policyholder benefits

0.2 

0.0 

General and administrative expenses

177.3 

194.0 

Goodwill impairment

137.8 

— 

Iké net losses

5.9 

163.0 

Interest expense

104.5 

110.6 

Loss on extinguishment of debt

— 

31.4 

Total benefits, losses and expenses

425.7 

499.0 

Segment loss before benefit for income taxes

(404.3)

(372.3)

Benefit for income taxes

(128.0)

(38.9)

Segment net loss

(276.3)

(333.4)

Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest

(0.9)

(4.2)

Net loss attributable to stockholders

(277.2)

(337.6)

Less: Preferred stock dividends

(18.7)

(18.7)

Net loss attributable to common stockholders

$

(295.9)

$

(356.3)

Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 

Net Loss Attributable to Common Stockholders

Segment net loss attributable to common stockholders decreased $60.4 million, or 17%, to $295.9 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $356.3 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to $154.6 million of lower after-tax losses from decreases in the estimated fair value of Iké, an $84.4 million tax benefit related to the utilization of net operating losses in connection with the CARES Act in Twelve Months 2020 and the absence of $29.6 million of after-tax debt related charges associated with refinancing debt at a lower interest rate in Twelve Months 2019. These increases were partially offset by the $137.8 million after-tax impairment on the Global Preneed goodwill and a $68.2 million after-tax decrease in net realized gains on investments as well as $21.5 million of after-tax direct and incremental operating expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic.

Total Revenues

Total revenues decreased $105.3 million, or 83%, to $21.4 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $126.7 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily driven by an $82.5 million decrease in net realized gains on investments mostly due to $28.1 million of lower net unrealized gains on equity securities, $22.5 million of higher net unrealized losses from the decrease in fair value of our collateralized loan obligations, a $15.6 million increase in impairments on equity investments accounted for under the measurement alternative and a decrease in net realized gains from sales of fixed maturity securities. The decrease was also driven by $17.9 million of lower net investment income due to a higher concentration of lower yielding liquid investments in 2020 compared to 2019 and lower income from real estate, as well as lower amortization of deferred gains associated with the sale of Assurant Employee Benefits.

Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses

61

 Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $73.3 million, or 15%, to $425.7 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $499.0 million for Twelve Months 2019. The decrease in expenses for Twelve Months 2020 was primarily due to the absence of certain events that occurred in Twelve Months 2019, mainly $157.1 million of lower losses associated with Iké, $37.4 million of debt related charges associated with refinancing debt at a lower interest rate and a $15.6 million impairment of certain intangible assets from our acquisition of Green Tree Insurance Agency. The decrease was also due to $10.8 million of income, net of certain exit costs, from the sale of our CLO asset management platform, $10.0 million increase in the net pension benefit and the absence of a $9.6 million loss on the sale of our Mortgage Solutions business in Twelve Months 2019. These decreases were partially offset by the $137.8 million impairment on the Global Preneed goodwill, $27.2 million of direct and incremental operating expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic and $11.8 million lower gain related to the reduction of the valuation allowance on the Company’s Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act of 2010 risk corridor program receivables.

Investments

 

We had total investments of $15.68 billion and $14.57 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities portfolio increased $660.5 million during Twelve Months 2020, from $1.26 billion at December 31, 2019 to $1.92 billion at December 31, 2020, primarily due to spread compression, partially offset by decreases in foreign exchange rates in several countries.

The following table shows the credit quality of our fixed maturity securities portfolio as of the dates indicated:

 

Fair Value as of

Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

Aaa / Aa / A

$

8,168.9 

60.7 

%

$

8,014.7 

65.1 

%

Baa

4,624.1 

34.4 

%

3,734.7 

30.3 

%

Ba

548.5 

4.1 

%

480.7 

3.9 

%

B and lower

107.5 

0.8 

%

92.3 

0.7 

%

Total

$

13,449.0 

100.0 

$

12,322.4 

100.0 

%

The following table shows the major categories of net investment income for the periods indicated:

 

Years Ended December 31,

 

2020

2019

Fixed maturity securities

$

481.8 

$

492.8 

Equity securities

20.7 

22.1 

Commercial mortgage loans on real estate

36.8 

36.6 

Short-term investments

5.8 

13.6 

Other investments

22.9 

49.2 

Cash and cash equivalents

13.4 

36.1 

Revenue from consolidated investment entities (1)

56.3 

119.2 

Total investment income

637.7 

769.6 

Investment expenses

(25.9)

(24.5)

Expenses from consolidated investment entities (1)

(36.9)

(70.1)

Net investment income

$

574.9 

$

675.0 

(1)

The following table shows the revenues net of expenses from consolidated investment entities (“CIEs”) for the periods indicated. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further detail. 

Years Ended December 31,

2020

2019

Investment income from direct investments in:

Real estate funds (1)

$

8.3 

$

25.1 

CLO entities

8.0 

17.0 

Investment management fees

3.1 

7.0 

Net investment income from consolidated investment entities

$

19.4 

$

49.1 

62

(1)

The investment income from the real estate funds includes income attributable to non-controlling interest of $1.1 million and $3.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

Net investment income decreased $100.1 million, or 15%, to $574.9 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $675.0 million for Twelve Months 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by lower income from other investments mostly due to a decrease in income from real estate that included $18.4 million of less income from sales of real estate joint venture partnerships and $18.3 million of lower unrealized gains from increases in fair market value in each period, and a decrease in income from short term investments and cash and cash equivalents mainly due to lower cash yields and unfavorable foreign exchange.  The decrease was also due to a reduction in income from fixed maturity securities due to lower yielding new money bond purchases and unfavorable foreign exchange.

As of December 31, 2020, we owned $68.0 million of securities guaranteed by financial guarantee insurance companies. Included in this amount was $59.6 million of municipal securities, whose credit rating was A+ with the guarantee, but would have had a rating of A- without the guarantee. 

For more information on our investments, see Notes 8 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources

 

As of December 31, 2020, we had $407.2 million of holding company liquidity. COVID-19 did not materially impact our liquidity and capital resources during Twelve Months 2020. Throughout this period, we believe our liquidity remained strong. For a discussion of COVID-19 related factors that could impact our liquidity, see “Item 1A — Risk Factors —Macroeconomic, Political and Global Market Risks — 

The COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.” 

 

The CARES Act, which was enacted in March 2020, includes measures to assist companies in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. These measures include the ability to carry back net operating losses to prior years taxed at higher rates and defer the due dates of certain tax payments. Pursuant to the CARES Act, we carried back net operating losses to 2013 and 2014, resulting in a refund claim of $198.4 million during Twelve Months 2020. We also deferred our first and second quarter 2020 federal estimated tax payments and payments related to the employer’s portion of social security tax in 2020. This had or will have the effect of increasing cash outlays for these taxes during the second half of 2020, 2021 and 2022. In July 2020, we received the full amount of the refund plus interest related to the net operating losses we carried back under the CARES Act, a portion of which was included in Twelve Months 2020 holding company liquidity. We continue to monitor COVID-19-related legislation on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations.

Regulatory Requirements

 

Assurant, Inc. is a holding company and, as such, has limited direct operations of its own. Our assets consist primarily of the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries, such as payments under our tax allocation agreement and under management agreements with our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries’ ability to pay such dividends and make such other payments is regulated by the states and territories in which our subsidiaries are domiciled. These dividend regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and by type of insurance provided by the applicable subsidiary, but generally require our insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum solvency requirements and limit the amount of dividends they can pay to the holding company. See “Item 1 – Business – Regulation – U.S. Insurance Regulation” and “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Legal and Regulatory Risks – 

Changes in insurance regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth

.” Along with solvency regulations, the primary driver in determining the amount of capital used for dividends from insurance subsidiaries is the level of capital needed to maintain desired financial strength ratings from A.M. Best. For the year ending December 31, 2021, the maximum amount of dividends our regulated U.S. domiciled insurance subsidiaries could pay us, under applicable laws and regulations without prior regulatory approval, is approximately $542.4 million. In addition, our international and non-insurance subsidiaries provide additional sources of dividends. 

Regulators or rating agencies could become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, increasing capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. In 2020, the following actions were taken by the rating agencies:

A.M. Best 

•

In July 2020, affirmed all financial strength ratings of our subsidiaries, as well as the rating of Assurant, Inc., each with a stable outlook. 

•

In October 2020, following our announcement related to exploring strategic alternatives for Global Preneed, including a potential sale of the business, placed the ratings of four of our subsidiaries under review with developing implications pending the conclusion of the process. 

63

•

In November 2020, assigned a bbb rating to our 2061 Subordinated Notes (as defined below) with a stable outlook.

Moody’s

•

In November 2020, assigned a Ba1 rating to our 2061 Subordinated Notes with a stable outlook. 

S&P

 

•

In the third quarter of 2020, all ratings were affirmed with a stable outlook. 

•

In November 2020, following our announcement related to exploring strategic alternatives for Global Preneed, including a potential sale of the business, placed the ratings of two of our subsidiaries on credit watch with developing implications pending the conclusion of the process.

•

In November 2020, assigned a BB+ to our 2061 Subordinated Notes with a stable outlook. 

For further information on our ratings and the risks of ratings downgrades, see “Item 1 – Business – Ratings” and “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – 

A decline in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition

.”

Holding Company

As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $407.2 million in holding company liquidity, $182.2 million above our targeted minimum level of $225.0 million. The target minimum level of holding company liquidity, which can be used for unforeseen capital needs at our subsidiaries or liquidity needs at the holding company, is calibrated based on approximately one year of corporate operating losses and interest expenses and MCPS dividends. We use the term “holding company liquidity” to represent the portion of cash and other liquid marketable securities held at Assurant, Inc., out of a total of $536.0 million of holding company investment securities and cash, which we are not otherwise holding for a specific purpose as of the balance sheet date. We can use such assets for stock repurchases, stockholder dividends, acquisitions and other corporate purposes. 

Dividends or returns of capital paid by our subsidiaries, net of infusions and excluding amounts used for or as a result of acquisitions or received from dispositions, were $821.0 million and $748.0 million for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. We use these cash inflows primarily to pay expenses, to make interest payments on indebtedness, to make dividend payments to our stockholders, to fund acquisitions and to repurchase our shares.

 

In addition to paying expenses, making interest payments on indebtedness and making dividend payments on our preferred stock, our capital management strategy provides for several uses of the cash generated by our subsidiaries, including without limitation, returning capital to common stockholders through share repurchases and dividends, investing in our business to support growth in targeted areas and making prudent and opportunistic acquisitions. From time to time, we may also seek to purchase outstanding debt in open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions. During Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, we made common stock repurchases and paid dividends to our common stockholders of $454.4 million and $426.3 million, respectively.   

In May 2020, we completed the sale of our 40% minority interests in Iké and terminated our obligations to purchase the remaining shares of Iké (collectively, the “Sale”). In connection with the Sale, we provided financing to Iké Grupo in an aggregate principal amount of $34.0 million (the “Iké Loan”). The Iké Loan matures in May 2025, bears floating interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 4.25% per annum payable quarterly and provides for quarterly principal amortization payments through the maturity date. The outstanding balance of the Iké Loan as of December 31, 2020 was $32.3 million. 

 For Twelve Months 2020, net cash outflows related to the Sale were $85.3 million, including net proceeds paid of $73.3 million and the Iké Loan of $34.0 million, less cash inflows of $22.0 million upon settling a financial derivative we had entered into in connection with our agreement to sell our interests in Iké. The financial derivative had provided an economic hedge against declines in the Mexican Peso relative to the U.S. Dollar since the purchase price was to be paid in Mexican Pesos. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. 

In May 2020, we also completed our acquisition of AFAS, a provider of finance and insurance products and services including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset protection insurance and other ancillary products, for total consideration of $176.9 million, a portion of which was excess cash in the business that was distributed to the holding company shortly after closing and therefore excluded from dividends paid by subsidiaries. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. 

In October 2020, we announced that we are exploring a range of strategic alternatives for Global Preneed, including the possible sale of the business, to focus on opportunities within the broader lifestyle and housing portfolio. 

64

In December 2020, we completed our acquisition of HYLA, a provider of smartphone software and trade-in and upgrade services, for $348.8 million, a portion of which was excess cash in the business that was distributed to the holding company shortly after closing and therefore excluded from dividends paid by subsidiaries. The Company used the net proceeds of $243.7 million from the 2061 Subordinated Notes, along with cash on hand, to finance the acquisition. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. 

Assurant Subsidiaries

The primary sources of funds for our subsidiaries consist of premiums and fees collected, proceeds from the sales and maturity of investments and net investment income. Cash is primarily used to pay insurance claims, agent commissions, operating expenses and taxes. We generally invest our subsidiaries’ excess funds in order to generate investment income.

We conduct periodic asset liability studies to measure the duration of our insurance liabilities, to develop optimal asset portfolio maturity structures for our significant lines of business and ultimately to assess that cash flows are sufficient to meet the timing of cash needs. These studies are conducted in accordance with formal company-wide Asset Liability Management guidelines.

 

To complete a study for a particular line of business, models are developed to project asset and liability cash flows and balance sheet items under a large, varied set of plausible economic scenarios. These models consider many factors including the current investment portfolio, the required capital for the related assets and liabilities, our tax position and projected cash flows from both existing and projected new business.

 

Alternative asset portfolio structures are analyzed for significant lines of business. An investment portfolio maturity structure is then selected from these profiles given our return hurdle and risk appetite. Scenario testing of significant liability assumptions and new business projections is also performed. Specific to COVID-19, several scenarios around impact on near term asset and liability projections, including new business, were modeled and evaluated.  

Our liabilities generally have limited policyholder optionality, which means that the timing of payments is relatively insensitive to the interest rate environment. In addition, our investment portfolio is largely comprised of highly liquid fixed maturity securities with a sufficient component of such securities invested that are near maturity which may be sold with minimal risk of loss to meet cash needs. Therefore, we believe we have limited exposure to disintermediation risk.

 

Generally, our subsidiaries’ premiums, fees and investment income, along with planned asset sales and maturities, provide sufficient cash to pay claims and expenses. However, there may be instances when unexpected cash needs arise in excess of that available from usual operating sources. In such instances, we have several options to raise needed funds, including selling assets from the subsidiaries’ investment portfolios, using holding company cash (if available), issuing commercial paper, or drawing funds from the five-year senior unsecured $450.0 million revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of banks arranged by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (of which $445.5 million was available as of December 31, 2020). In addition, in January 2021, we filed an automatically effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC. This registration statement allows us to issue equity, debt or other types of securities through one or more methods of distribution. The terms of any offering would be established at the time of the offering, subject to market conditions. If we decide to make an offering of securities, we will consider the nature of the cash requirement as well as the cost of capital in determining what type of securities we may offer.

 

Dividends and Repurchases

On January 12, 2021, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.66 per common share payable on March 15, 2021 to stockholders of record as of February 22, 2021. We paid dividends of $0.66 per common share on December 21, 2020 to stockholders of record as of November 30, 2020. This represented a 5% increase to the quarterly dividend of $0.63 per common share paid on September 22, June 16, and March 16, 2020. 

On January 12, 2021, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $1.6250 per share of MCPS payable on March 15, 2021 to stockholders of record as of March 1, 2021, which will be the final dividend paid on the MCPS. We paid dividends of $1.6250 per share of MCPS on December 15, 2020 to stockholders of record as of December 1, 2020, consistent with dividends paid on September 15, June 15, and March 16, 2020. Pursuant to its terms, the MCPS will convert into shares of common stock on March 15, 2021.  

Any determination to pay future dividends will be at the discretion of the Board and will be dependent upon various factors, including: our subsidiaries’ payments of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments to us; our results of operations and cash flows; our financial condition and capital requirements; general business conditions and growth prospects; any legal, tax, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends; and any other factors the Board deems relevant. Payments of dividends on shares of common stock are subject to the preferential rights of the MCPS described below. The Credit Facility also contains limitations on our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders if we are in default, or such 

65

dividend payments would cause us to be in default, of our obligations thereunder. In addition, if we defer the payment of interest on our Subordinated Notes, we generally may not make payments on our capital stock.

During Twelve Months 2020, we repurchased 2,438,975 shares of our outstanding common stock at a cost of $299.8 million, exclusive of commissions. On January 12, 2021, the Board authorized a new share repurchase program for up to $600.0 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock. The new share repurchase authorization is in addition to the $186.5 million of prior authorization remaining as of December 31, 2020. The timing and the amount of future repurchases will depend on market conditions, our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and other factors, including the impact of COVID-19 on our business.

Management believes that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our needs over the next twelve months, including the ability to pay interest on our debt and dividends on our common and preferred stock. 

Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

In March 2018, we issued 2,875,000 shares of our MCPS. Each outstanding share of MCPS will convert automatically on March 15, 2021 into between 0.9398 (the “minimum conversion rate”) and 1.1277 shares of common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. At any time prior to March 2021, holders may elect to convert each share of MCPS into shares of common stock at the minimum conversion rate or in the event of a fundamental change at the specified rates defined in the Certificate of Designations of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock.

Dividends on the MCPS will be payable on a cumulative basis when, as and if declared, at an annual rate of 6.50% of the liquidation preference of $100.00 per share. We may pay declared dividends in cash or, subject to certain limitations, in shares of our common stock, or in any combination of cash and shares of our common stock quarterly, commencing in June 2018 and ending in March 2021. No dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on common stock or any other class or series of junior stock, and no common stock or any other class or series of junior stock or parity stock may be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration unless all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the MCPS for all preceding dividend periods have been declared and paid in full, subject to certain limited exceptions. We paid preferred stock dividends of $18.7 million for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019. For additional information regarding the MCPS, see Note 20 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.

Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program

We have a Credit Facility that provides for revolving loans and the issuance of multi-bank, syndicated letters of credit and letters of credit from a sole issuing bank in an aggregate amount of $450.0 million, which may be increased up to $575.0 million. The Credit Facility is available until December 2022, provided we are in compliance with all covenants. The Credit Facility has a sub-limit for letters of credit issued thereunder of $50.0 million. The proceeds from these loans may be used for our commercial paper program or for general corporate purposes. 

In March 2020, we drew down $200.0 million from our Credit Facility. We repaid the loan in July 2020, at the end of the then-current interest period. While outstanding, the loan bore interest at a floating rate equal to LIBOR (three-month during the initial interest period and one-month in the second and final interest rate period) plus 1.50% per annum. 

Our commercial paper program requires us to maintain liquidity facilities either in an available amount equal to any outstanding notes from the program or in an amount sufficient to maintain the ratings assigned to the notes issued from the program. Our commercial paper is rated AMB-1 by A.M. Best, P-3 by Moody’s and A-2 by S&P. Our subsidiaries do not maintain commercial paper or other borrowing facilities. This program is currently backed up by the Credit Facility, of which $445.5 million was available as of December 31, 2020, and $4.5 million letters of credit were outstanding. 

We did not use the commercial paper program during Twelve Months 2020 or Twelve Months 2019 and there were no amounts relating to the commercial paper program outstanding as of December 31, 2020 or 2019. Besides the aforementioned draw down, we made no borrowings using the Credit Facility during Twelve Months 2020 or Twelve Months 2019 and no loans were outstanding as of December 31, 2020 or 2019. 

Covenants

The Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants including, but not limited to:

(i)

Maintenance of a maximum consolidated total debt to capitalization ratio on the last day of any fiscal quarter of not greater than 0.35 to 1.0; and

(ii)

Maintenance of a consolidated adjusted net worth in an amount not less than a “Minimum Amount” equal to the sum of (a) the greater of 70% of our consolidated adjusted net worth on the date of the closing of the TWG acquisition and $2.72 billion, (b) 25% of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter (if positive) beginning with the first fiscal quarter ending after the date of the closing of the TWG acquisition and (c) 25% of the net cash 

66

proceeds received from any capital contribution to, or issuance of any capital stock, disqualified capital stock and hybrid securities, received after the closing of the TWG acquisition.

In the event of a breach of certain covenants, all obligations under the Credit Facility, including unpaid principal and accrued interest and outstanding letters of credit, may become immediately due and payable.

 

Senior and Subordinated Notes

 

The following table shows the principal amount and carrying value of our outstanding debt, less unamortized discount and issuance costs as applicable, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2019

Principal Amount

Carrying Value

Principal Amount

Carrying Value

Floating Rate Senior Notes due March 2021 (1)

$

50.0 

$

50.0 

$

50.0 

$

49.9 

4.00% Senior Notes due March 2023

350.0 

348.9 

350.0 

348.5 

4.20% Senior Notes due September 2023

300.0 

298.4 

300.0 

297.8 

4.90% Senior Notes due March 2028

300.0 

297.2 

300.0 

296.8 

3.70% Senior Notes due February 2030

350.0 

347.0 

350.0 

346.8 

6.75% Senior Notes due February 2034

275.0 

272.3 

275.0 

272.1 

7.00% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Notes due March 2048 (2)

400.0 

395.4 

400.0 

395.0 

5.25% Subordinated Notes due January 2061

250.0 

243.7 

— 

— 

Total Debt

$

2,252.9 

$

2,006.9 

(1)

Bears floating interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 1.25%, per annum. In January 2021, we redeemed the remaining $50.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.  

(2)

Bears a 7.00% annual interest rate from March 2018 to March 2028 and an annual interest rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 4.135% thereafter. 

Recent Issuances

2061 Subordinated Notes: 

In November 2020, we issued subordinated notes due January 2061 with a principal amount of $250.0 million, which bear interest at an annual rate of 5.25% (the “2061 Subordinated Notes”). Interest is payable quarterly in arrears beginning in April 2021. On or after January 2026, we may redeem the 2061 Subordinated Notes in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price equal to their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, provided that if they are not redeemed in whole, a minimum amount must remain outstanding. At any time prior to January 2026, we may redeem the 2061 Subordinated Notes in whole but not in part, within 90 days after the occurrence of a tax event, rating agency event or regulatory capital event as defined in the global note representing the 2061 Subordinated Notes, at a redemption price equal to (i) with respect to a rating agency event, 102% of their principal amount and (ii) with respect to a tax event or a regulatory capital event, their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. See below, under 2048 Subordinated Notes (as defined below), for more information on terms applicable to both series. 

We used the net proceeds of $243.7 million from the 2061 Subordinated Notes, along with cash on hand, to finance the acquisition of HYLA. For additional information on the acquisition, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 

Senior Notes

2030 Senior Notes: 

In August 2019, we issued senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million which bear interest at a rate of 3.70% per year, mature in February 2030 and were issued at a 0.035% discount to the public (the “2030 Senior Notes”). Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears beginning in February 2020. Prior to November 2029, we may redeem the 2030 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a make-whole premium plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after that date, we may redeem the 2030 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. 

We used the net proceeds from the offering, together with cash on hand to purchase $100.0 million of our 6.75% senior notes due 2034 in a cash tender offer, to redeem $250.0 million of our floating rate senior notes due 2021 and to pay related premiums, fees and expenses. 

In March 2018, we issued the following three series of senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $900.0 million:

•

2021 Senior Notes:

 The first series of senior notes is $300.0 million in principal amount, bears floating interest rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 1.25% (1.50% as of December 31, 2020) and matures in March 2021 (the “2021 

67

Senior Notes”). Interest on the 2021 Senior Notes is payable quarterly. Commencing on or after March 2019, we may redeem the 2021 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. In August 2019, we redeemed $250.0 million of the $300.0 million then outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In January 2021, we redeemed the remaining $50.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. 

•

2023 Senior Notes:

 The second series of senior notes is $300.0 million in principal amount, bears interest at 4.20% per year, matures in September 2023 and was issued at a 0.233% discount to the public (the “2023 Senior Notes”). Interest on the 2023 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually. Prior to August 2023, we may redeem the 2023 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a make-whole premium plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after that date, we may redeem the 2023 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest.

•

2028 Senior Notes:

 The third series of senior notes is $300.0 million in principal amount, bears interest at 4.90% per year, matures in March 2028 and was issued at a 0.383% discount to the public (the “2028 Senior Notes”). Interest on the 2028 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually. Prior to December 2027, we may redeem the 2028 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a make-whole premium plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after that date, we may redeem the 2028 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest.

The interest rate payable on each of the 2021 Senior Notes, 2023 Senior Notes, 2028 Senior Notes and 2030 Senior Notes will be subject to adjustment from time to time, if either Moody’s or S&P downgrades the credit rating assigned to such series of senior notes to Ba1 or below or to BB+ or below, respectively, or subsequently upgrades the credit ratings once the senior notes are at or below such levels. For more details on the increase in interest rate over the issuance rate by rating, see Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 

In March 2013, we issued two series of senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $700.0 million. The first series was $350.0 million in principal amount, bore interest at 2.50% per year and was repaid at maturity in March 2018. The second series is $350.0 million in principal amount and was issued at a 0.365% discount to the public. This series bears interest at 4.00% per year and matures in March 2023. Interest is payable semi-annually. We may redeem the outstanding series of senior notes in whole or in part at any time and from time to time before maturity at the redemption price set forth in the global note representing the outstanding series of senior notes.

In February 2004, we issued senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $475.0 million at a 0.61% discount to the public, which bear interest at 6.75% per year and matures in February 2034. Interest is payable semi-annually. These senior notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. In December 2016 and August 2019, we completed a cash tender offer of $100.0 million each in aggregate principal amount of such senior notes. A loss on extinguishment of debt of $31.4 million was reported for the year ended December 31, 2019.

Other Subordinated Notes

2048 Subordinated Notes

: In March 2018, we issued fixed-to-floating rate subordinated notes due March 2048 with a principal amount of $400.0 million (the “2048 Subordinated Notes”), which bear interest from March 2018 to March 2028 at an annual rate of 7.00%, payable semi-annually. The 2048 Subordinated Notes will bear interest at an annual rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 4.135%, payable quarterly, beginning in June 2028. On or after March 2028, we may redeem the 2048 Subordinated Notes in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price equal to their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, provided that if they are not redeemed in whole, a minimum amount must remain outstanding. At any time prior to March 2028, we may redeem the 2048 Subordinated Notes in whole but not in part, within 90 days after the occurrence of a tax event, rating agency event or regulatory capital event as defined in the global note representing the 2048 Subordinated Notes, at a redemption price equal to (i) with respect to a rating agency event 102% of their principal amount and (ii) with respect to a tax event or a regulatory capital event, their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.

68

In addition, so long as no event of default with respect to the 2048 Subordinated Notes and 2061 Subordinated Notes (together, the “Subordinated Notes”) has occurred and is continuing, we have the right, on one or more occasions, to defer the payment of interest on the Subordinated Notes for one or more consecutive interest periods for up to five years as described in the global note representing the Subordinated Notes. During a deferral period, interest will continue to accrue on the Subordinated Notes at the then-applicable interest rate. At any time when we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments on the Subordinated Notes, we generally may not make payments on or redeem or purchase any shares of our capital stock or any of our debt securities or guarantees that rank upon our liquidation on a parity with or junior to the Subordinated Notes, subject to certain limited exceptions.

See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information.

Retirement and Other Employee Benefits

We have sponsored an Assurant Pension Plan and various non-qualified pension plans (including an Executive Pension Plan), along with Retirement Health Benefits covering our employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. Benefit accruals for the Assurant Pension Plan, the various non-qualified pension plans and the Retirement Health Benefits were frozen in March 2016. In February 2020, we amended the Retirement Health Benefits to terminate such plan benefits to retirees effective December 31, 2024. The reported amounts associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions, which include, but are not limited to, the discount rate and expected return on plan assets. We determine these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, and historical performance of the plan and its assets. The actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of our aggregate projected benefit obligation vary and include an expectation of long-term appreciation in equity markets, which is not changed by minor short-term market fluctuations, but does change when large prolonged interim deviations occur. The assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. 

During 2020, there were no contributions to the Assurant Pension Plan. Due to the Plan’s current overfunded status, no contributions are expected to be made to the Assurant Pension Plan in 2021. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information.

 

Cash Flows 

We monitor cash flows at the consolidated, holding company and subsidiary levels. Cash flow forecasts at the consolidated and subsidiary levels are provided on a monthly basis, and we use trend and variance analyses to project future cash needs making adjustments to the forecasts when needed.

 

The table below shows our recent net cash flows for the periods indicated:

 

For the Years Ended December 31,

 

2020

2019

Net cash provided by (used in):

Operating activities

$

1,342.0 

$

1,413.4 

Investing activities

(735.2)

(619.8)

Financing activities

(264.8)

(179.2)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

19.5 

(1.3)

Net change in cash

$

361.5 

$

613.1 

Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2020 and 2019

Operating Activities

 

We typically generate operating cash inflows from premiums collected from our insurance products, fees received for services and income received from our investments while outflows consist of policy acquisition costs, benefits paid and operating expenses. These net cash flows are then invested to support the obligations of our insurance products and required capital supporting these products. Our cash flows from operating activities are affected by the timing of premiums, fees, and investment income received and expenses paid. 

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.34 billion and $1.41 billion for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the timing of certain cash payments and business activities from our Global Lifestyle business. The primary factors contributing to the decrease included the absence of a prior year receipt of prepaid premiums in Japan given subsequent changes in payment terms under the program and the timing of cumulative payments to a vendor related to a program initiated in 2019 for acquiring mobile devices used to meet insurance claims or generate profits through sales to third parties.  These decreases were partially offset by receipt 

69

of a $204.9 million tax refund, which includes interest, related to the ability to carryback net operating losses to prior periods under the CARES Act and higher collections of premium receivable balances mostly due to timing. 

Investing Activities

 

Net cash used in investing activities was $735.2 million and $619.8 million for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $458.6 million of cash used for acquisitions, net of $135.5 million of cash acquired, partially offset by the timing of net purchases of securities in connection with CLO structures launched in 2019. For additional information, see Notes 3 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. The remaining changes were due to the ongoing management of our investment portfolio. 

Financing Activities

 

Net cash used in financing activities was $264.8 million and $179.2 million for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to $268.4 million of lower cash from our CIEs provided, net of repayments of borrowings to short-term warehouse facilities, primarily related to the timing of CLO structures launched in 2019. Also contributing was an increase in the repurchase of the Company’s outstanding common stock for Twelve Months 2020. These were partially offset by the issuance of the 2061 Subordinated Notes, net of issuance costs, of $243.7 million in Twelve Months 2020 and a $31.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in connection with the tender offer of $100 million of our 6.75% notes due 2034 recorded in Twelve Months 2019. For additional information, see Notes 9 and 19, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 

The table below shows our cash outflows for taxes, interest and dividends for the periods indicated:

 

For the Years Ended December 31,

 

2020

2019

Income taxes paid

$

98.5 

$

93.1 

Interest paid on debt

103.6 

103.2 

Common stock dividends

154.6 

151.3 

Preferred stock dividends

18.7 

18.7 

Total

$

375.4 

$

366.3 

Commitments and Contingencies

We have obligations and commitments to third parties as a result of our operations, as detailed in the table below by maturity date as of December 31, 2020:

 

 

As of December 31, 2020

 

Total

Less than 1

Year

1-3

Years

3-5

Years

More than 5

Years

Contractual obligations

:

Insurance liabilities (1)

$

9,003.0 

$

1,184.0 

$

759.7 

$

708.3 

$

6,351.0 

Debt and related interest

4,109.2 

164.3 

867.7 

174.7 

2,902.5 

Operating leases

88.9 

23.0 

30.2 

16.2 

19.5 

Pension obligations and postretirement benefits

551.8 

58.8 

126.1 

110.2 

256.7 

Commitments:

Investment purchases outstanding:

Commercial mortgage loans on real estate

7.0 

7.0 

— 

— 

— 

Capital contributions to non-consolidated VIEs

50.4 

50.4 

— 

— 

— 

Liability for unrecognized tax benefits

17.9 

— 

14.2 

— 

3.7 

Total obligations and commitments

$

13,828.2 

$

1,487.5 

$

1,797.9 

$

1,009.4 

$

9,533.4 

(1)

Insurance liabilities reflect undiscounted estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders, net of expected future premium cash receipts on in-force policies and excluding fully reinsured runoff operations. The total gross reserve for fully reinsured runoff operations that was excluded was $4.80 billion which, if the reinsurers defaulted, would be payable over a 30+ year period with the majority of the payments occurring after 5 years. Additional information on the reinsurance arrangements can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. As a 

70

result, the amounts presented in this table do not agree to the future policy benefits and expenses and claims and benefits payable in the consolidated balance sheets.

Liabilities for future policy benefits and expenses have been included in the commitments and contingencies table. Significant uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns, inflation, contract terms and the timing of payments.

 

Letters of Credit

 

In the normal course of business, letters of credit are issued primarily to support reinsurance arrangements in which we are the reinsurer. These letters of credit are supported by commitments under which we are required to indemnify the financial institution issuing the letter of credit if the letter of credit is drawn. We had $7.6 million and $12.1 million of letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

 

The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources of the Company.