>Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risks

Our financial market risk consists principally of exposure to currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Exchange rate and interest rate risks are managed with a variety of techniques, including use of derivatives. We have in place policies of hedging against changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices as described below.

See 

Note 2 - Summary of Accounting Policies

 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our derivative and hedging instruments accounting policies related to financial market risk.

See 

Note 19 - Derivative Financial Instruments

 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our market risk management and the related impact on our financial position and results of operations.

•

Foreign Currency Forwards and Swaps

A portion of our assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. Fluctuations in the value of these currencies against the US dollar can have a direct and material impact on the business and financial results. Our largest exposures are to the Euro and Chinese Yuan ("CNY"). A decline in the value of the Euro and CNY versus the US dollar results in a decline in the US dollar value of our sales and earnings denominated in Euros and CNYs. Likewise, an increase in the value of the Euro and CNY versus the US dollar would result in an opposite effect. We estimate that a 10% change in the Euro/US dollar and CNY/US dollar exchange rates would impact our earnings by $52 million and $19 million, respectively.

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Our consolidated financial statements and supplementary data are included in 

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

 of this Annual Report.

Quarterly Financial Information

For a discussion of material events affecting performance in each quarter, see 