>Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Condition

 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 for the fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2018 comparative discussions.

49

Table of Contents

Dividends

For a summary of quarterly cash dividends declared per share on our Class A and Class B Common Stock during the year ended June 30, 2020 and through August 20, 2020, see 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 17 – Common Stock

. As noted in 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 17 – Common Stock, 

we did not declare quarterly cash dividends that would have been paid in June 2020. 

Pension and Post-retirement Plan Funding

Several factors influence the annual funding requirements for our pension plans. For our domestic trust-based noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan (“U.S. Qualified Plan”), we seek to maintain appropriate funded percentages. For any future contributions to the U.S. Qualified Plan, we would seek to contribute an amount or amounts that would not be less than the minimum required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, (“ERISA”) and subsequent pension legislation, and would not be more than the maximum amount deductible for income tax purposes. For each international plan, our funding policies are determined by local laws and regulations. In addition, amounts necessary to fund future obligations under these plans could vary depending on estimated assumptions

.

 The effect of our pension plan funding on future operating results will depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates, the number of participants electing to take lump-sum distributions, investment performance and funding decisions.

For the U.S. Qualified Plan, we maintain an investment strategy of matching the duration of a substantial portion of the plan assets with the duration of the underlying plan liabilities. This strategy assists us in maintaining our overall funded ratio. For fiscal 2020 and 2019, we met or exceeded all contribution requirements under ERISA regulations for the U.S. Qualified Plan. As we continue to monitor the funded status, we may decide to make cash contributions to the U.S. Qualified Plan or our post-retirement medical plan in the United States during fiscal 2021.

The following table summarizes actual and expected benefit payments and contributions for our other pension and post-retirement plans:

 

Year Ended June 30

(In millions)

Expected 2021

2020

2019

Non-qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan benefit payments

$

23

 

$

18

 

$

19

 

International defined benefit pension plan contributions

$

25

 

$

25

 

$

33

 

Post-retirement plan benefit payments

$

8

 

$

8

 

$

7

 

Commitments and Contingencies

Certain of our business acquisition agreements include contingent consideration or “earn-out” provisions. These provisions generally require that we pay to the seller or sellers of the business additional amounts based on the performance of the acquired business. Since the size of each payment depends upon performance of the acquired business, we do not expect that such payments will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or financial condition.

For additional contingencies refer to 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies (Contractual Obligations)

.

Contractual Obligations

For a discussion of our contractual obligations, see 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies (Contractual Obligations)

.

Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities

For a discussion of our derivative financial instruments and hedging activities, see 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 12 – Derivative Financial Instruments

.

Foreign Exchange Risk Management

For a discussion of foreign exchange risk management, see 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 12 – Derivative Financial Instruments (Cash Flow Hedges, Net Investment Hedges)

.

Credit Risk

For a discussion of credit risk, see 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 12 – Derivative Financial Instruments (Credit Risk)

.

50

Table of Contents

Market Risk

We address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of market risk management that includes the use of foreign currency forward contracts to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates and to mitigate the change in fair value of specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. To perform a sensitivity analysis of our foreign currency forward contracts, we assess the change in fair values from the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates. A hypothetical 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar against the foreign exchange rates for the currencies in our portfolio would have resulted in a net increase (decrease) in the fair value of our portfolio of approximately $(222) million and $48 million as of June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. This potential change does not consider our underlying foreign currency exposures.

In addition, we enter into interest rate derivatives to manage the effects of interest rate movements on our aggregate liability portfolio, including future debt issuances. Based on a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates, the estimated fair value of our interest rate derivatives would increase (decrease) by approximately $9 million and $(16) million as of June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our sensitivity analysis represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on our portfolio of derivative financial instruments assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may or may not occur. It does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated, based upon actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures, and the timing thereof, and changes in our portfolio of derivative financial instruments during the year. We believe, however, that any such loss incurred would be offset by the effects of market rate movements on the respective underlying transactions for which the derivative financial instrument was intended.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We do not maintain any off-balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a material current or future effect upon our financial condition or results of operations.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Refer to 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

 for discussion regarding the impact of accounting standards that were recently issued but not yet effective, on our consolidated financial statements.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition at June 30, 2020 and our results of operations for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in those financial statements. These estimates and assumptions can be subjective and complex and, consequently, actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider accounting estimates to be critical if both (i) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (ii) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to the Company’s financial condition. Our critical accounting policies relate to goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets, income taxes and business combinations.

Management of the Company has discussed the selection of critical accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors.

Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets – Impairment Assessment

Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the cost of purchased businesses over the fair value of their underlying net assets. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets principally consist of trademarks. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized.

When testing goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we have the option of first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative impairment test. If necessary, we can perform a single step quantitative goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and record an impairment charge for the amount that the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, up to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. For fiscal 2020 and 2019, we elected to perform the qualitative assessment for certain of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets. This qualitative assessment included the review of certain macroeconomic factors and entity-specific qualitative factors to determine if it was more-likely-than-not that the fair values of our reporting units were below carrying value. For our other reporting units and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, a quantitative assessment was performed. We engaged third-party valuation specialists and used industry accepted valuation models and criteria that were reviewed and approved by various levels of management.

51

Table of Contents

For further discussion of the methods used and factors considered in our estimates as part of the impairment testing for Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets, see 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

, 

Note 6 – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

and

 Note 7 – Leases

.

Income Taxes

We calculate and provide for income taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. As the application of various tax laws relevant to our global business is often uncertain, significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions. The provision for income taxes includes the amounts payable or refundable for the current year, the effect of deferred taxes and impacts from uncertain tax positions.

We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis, net operating losses, tax credit and other carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates when the assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. We regularly review deferred tax assets for realizability and establish valuation allowances based on available evidence including historical operating losses, projected future taxable income, expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences, and appropriate tax planning strategies. If our assessment of the realizability of a deferred tax asset changes, an increase to a valuation allowance will result in a reduction of net earnings at that time, while the reduction of a valuation allowance will result in an increase of net earnings at that time.

We provide tax reserves for U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax exposures relating to periods subject to audit. The development of reserves for these exposures requires judgments about tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is a subjective critical estimate. We assess our tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon management’s evaluation of the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting dates. For those tax positions where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with a tax authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those tax positions where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will not be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the consolidated financial statements. We classify applicable interest and penalties as a component of the provision for income taxes. Although the outcome relating to these exposures is uncertain, in our opinion adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for estimable potential liabilities emanating from these exposures. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our consolidated net earnings.

For further discussion of our Income Taxes accounting policy, see 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

.

Business Combinations

We use the acquisition method of accounting for acquired businesses. Under the acquisition method, our consolidated financial statements reflect the operations of an acquired business starting from the closing date of the acquisition. We allocate the purchase price to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. The determination of fair value, as well as the expected useful lives of certain assets acquired, requires management to make judgements and may involve the use of significant estimates, including assumptions with respect to estimated future cash flows, discount rates and valuation multiples from comparable publicly traded companies, among other things. Management estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. 

During fiscal 2020, we acquired the remaining 66.66% equity interest in Have & Be. 

We originally acquired a minority interest in Have & Be in December 2015, and that investment structure included a formula-based call option for the remaining equity interest. The original minority interest was accounted for as an equity method investment. The acquisition of the remaining equity interest in Have & Be was considered a step acquisition, whereby we remeasured the previously held equity method investment to its fair value, resulting in the recognition of a gain. The acquisition of the remaining equity interest also resulted in the recognition of a previously unrealized foreign currency gain, which was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income. The fair value of the previously held equity method investment was determined based upon a valuation of the acquired business, as of the date of acquisition, using an equal weighting of the income and market approaches, utilizing estimated cash flows and a terminal value, discounted at a rate of return that reflects the relative risk of the cash flows, as well as valuation multiples derived from comparable publicly traded companies. 

We allocated the total consideration transferred, which included the cash paid at closing and the fair value of our previously held equity method investment, to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair value at the acquisition date. The excess of the total consideration transferred over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired was recorded as goodwill.

52

Table of Contents

For further discussion of our Business Combinations accounting policy, see 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

.

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

We and our representatives from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including in this and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases and in our reports to stockholders, which may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may address our expectations regarding sales, earnings or other future financial performance and liquidity, other performance measures, product introductions, entry into new geographic regions, information technology initiatives, new methods of sale, our long-term strategy, restructuring and other charges and resulting cost savings, and future operations or operating results. These statements may contain words like “expect,” “will,” “will likely result,” “would,” “believe,” “estimate,” “planned,” “plans,” “intends,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “projected,” “forecast,” and “forecasted” or similar expressions. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business and operations, actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, without limitation:

(1)

increased competitive activity from companies in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care businesses;

(2)

our ability to develop, produce and market new products on which future operating results may depend and to successfully address challenges in our business;

(3)

consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and reorganizations in the retail industry causing a decrease in the number of stores that sell our products, an increase in the ownership concentration within the retail industry, ownership of retailers by our competitors or ownership of competitors by our customers that are retailers and our inability to collect receivables;

(4)

destocking and tighter working capital management by retailers;

(5)

the success, or changes in timing or scope, of new product launches and the success, or changes in timing or scope, of advertising, sampling and merchandising programs;

(6)

shifts in the preferences of consumers as to where and how they shop;

(7)

social, political and economic risks to our foreign or domestic manufacturing, distribution and retail operations, including changes in foreign investment and trade policies and regulations of the host countries and of the United States;

(8)

changes in the laws, regulations and policies (including the interpretations and enforcement thereof) that affect, or will affect, our business, including those relating to our products or distribution networks, changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, environmental or climate change laws, regulations or accords, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result;

(9)

foreign currency fluctuations affecting our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same markets and our operating and manufacturing costs outside of the United States;

(10)

changes in global or local conditions, including those due to the volatility in the global credit and equity markets, natural or man-made disasters, real or perceived epidemics, or energy costs, that could affect consumer purchasing, the willingness or ability of consumers to travel and/or purchase our products while traveling, the financial strength of our customers, suppliers or other contract counterparties, our operations, the cost and availability of capital which we may need for new equipment, facilities or acquisitions, the returns that we are able to generate on our pension assets and the resulting impact on funding obligations, the cost and availability of raw materials and the assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates;

(11)

impacts attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic, including disruptions to our global business;

(12)

shipment delays, commodity pricing, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from disruptions of operations at any of the facilities that manufacture our products or at our distribution or inventory centers, including disruptions that may be caused by the implementation of information technology initiatives, or by restructurings;

53

Table of Contents

(13)

real estate rates and availability, which may affect our ability to increase or maintain the number of retail locations at which we sell our products and the costs associated with our other facilities;

(14)

changes in product mix to products which are less profitable;

(15)

our ability to acquire, develop or implement new information and distribution technologies and initiatives on a timely basis and within our cost estimates and our ability to maintain continuous operations of such systems and the security of data and other information that may be stored in such systems or other systems or media;

(16)

our ability to capitalize on opportunities for improved efficiency, such as publicly-announced strategies and restructuring and cost-savings initiatives, and to integrate acquired businesses and realize value therefrom;

(17)

consequences attributable to local or international conflicts around the world, as well as from any terrorist action, retaliation and the threat of further action or retaliation;

(18)

the timing and impact of acquisitions, investments and divestitures; and

(19)

additional factors as described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020.

We assume no responsibility to update forward-looking statements made herein or otherwise.