>Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has issued the following Accounting Standards Updates (“ASU”) which are not expected to have a material impact to our financial statements or financial statement disclosures.

ASU

Effective Date (a)

2019-12

Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes

January 1, 2021

2020-06

Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entity’s Own Equity

January 1, 2022

2018-12

Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long Duration Contracts

January 1, 2023

_________

(a)

Early adoption for each of the standards is permitted.

AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties.  Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Ford Credit segment.  Long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates.  For long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties.  In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services.  These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements.  “Purchase obligations” are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms.  

The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020 (in millions):

Payments Due by Period

2021

2022 - 2023

2024 - 2025

Thereafter

Total

Company excluding Ford Credit

On-balance sheet

Long-term debt (a)

$

716 

$

6,396 

$

4,590 

$

11,709 

$

23,411 

Interest payments relating to long-term debt

1,482 

2,693 

2,017 

9,916 

16,108 

Finance leases (b)

60 

97 

64 

303 

524 

Operating leases

348 

460 

247 

334 

1,389 

Pension funding (c)

185 

375 

370 

— 

930 

Off-balance sheet

Purchase obligations

1,626 

1,429 

682 

370 

4,107 

Total Company excluding Ford Credit

4,417 

11,450 

7,970 

22,632 

46,469 

Ford Credit

On-balance sheet

Long-term debt (a)

38,530 

47,087 

28,747 

10,639 

125,003 

Interest payments relating to long-term debt 

2,946 

3,815 

1,980 

1,053 

9,794 

Operating leases

18 

29 

26 

18 

91 

Off-balance sheet

Purchase obligations

29 

40 

4 

— 

73 

Total Ford Credit

41,523 

50,971 

30,757 

11,710 

134,961 

     Total Company

$

45,940 

$

62,421 

$

38,727 

$

34,342 

$

181,430 

__________

(a)

Excludes unamortized debt discounts/premiums, unamortized debt issuance costs, and fair value adjustments.

(b)

Includes interest payments of $110 million.

(c)

Amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated contributions to the Ford-Werke plan.  See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for further information regarding our expected 2020 pension contributions and funded status.

The amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2020 of $1.9 billion (see Note 7 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above.  Final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated.

For additional information regarding pension and OPEB obligations, operating lease obligations, long-term debt, and agreed future funding for Argo AI, see Notes 17, 18, 19, and 22, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements.  

85

ITEM 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

OVERVIEW

We are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks.

These risks affect our Automotive and Ford Credit segments differently.  We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee (“GRMC”).  The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and the committee includes our Controller, Treasurer, and other members of senior management.

Our Automotive and Ford Credit segments are exposed to liquidity risk, including the possibility of having to curtail business or being unable to meet financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable.  Our plan is to maintain funding sources to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles.  As discussed in greater detail in Item 7, our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings.

We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury.  We protect against these risks through the purchase of commercial insurance that is designed to protect us above our self-insured retentions against events that could generate significant losses.

Direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our Treasurer’s Office and is governed by written policies and procedures.  Separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows.  Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective.  In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the GRMC, and reviewed by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.

In accordance with our corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps, and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates).  We do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making, or speculative purposes.  In certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.  Either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized in income.  For additional information on our derivatives, see Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.

The market and counterparty risks of our Automotive and Ford Credit segments are discussed and quantified below.

AUTOMOTIVE MARKET RISK

Our Automotive segment frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following:  purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations.  These expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates.  We also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in the production of our vehicles and changes in interest rates.  

Foreign currency risk, commodity risk, and interest rate risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of market value to instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices.  

Foreign Currency Risk.

  Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates.  Accordingly, our practice is to use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, and firm commitments denominated in certain foreign currencies consistent with our overall risk management strategy.  In our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts).

86

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) 

The net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of December 31, 2020, was a liability of $487 million, compared with a liability of $596 million as of December 31, 2019.  The potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in U.S. dollar terms, would have been $2.5 billion at December 31, 2020, compared with $2.3 billion at December 31, 2019.  The sensitivity analysis presented is hypothetical and assumes foreign exchange rate changes are instantaneous and adverse across all currencies.  In reality, some of our exposures offset and foreign exchange rates move in different magnitudes and at different times, and any changes in fair value would generally be offset by changes in the underlying exposure.  See Note 20 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding our foreign currency exchange contracts.  

Commodity Price Risk.  

Commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as base metals (e.g., steel, copper, and aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene).  Accordingly, our practice is to use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk with respect to forecasted purchases of certain commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily base metals and precious metals) and consistent with our overall risk management strategy.  In our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts).  The extent to which we hedge is also impacted by our ability to achieve designated hedge accounting.

The net fair value of commodity forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of December 31, 2020, was an asset of $105 million, compared with a liability of $24 million as of December 31, 2019.  The potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices would be $141 million at December 31, 2020, compared with $112 million at December 31, 2019.  The sensitivity analysis presented is hypothetical and assumes commodity price changes are instantaneous and adverse across all commodities.  In reality, commodity prices move in different magnitudes and at different times, and any changes in fair value would generally be offset by changes in the underlying exposure.

In addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC, as appropriate) negotiates contracts for the continuous supply of raw materials.  In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and, therefore, play a role in managing commodity price risk.

Interest Rate Risk.  

Interest rate risk relates to the loss we could incur in our Company cash investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates.  Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities.  At December 31, 2020, we had $30.8 billion in our Company cash investment portfolios, compared to $22.3 billion at December 31, 2019.  We invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates.  The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments.  In investing our Company cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective.

At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios.  Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by $250 million, as calculated as of December 31, 2020.  This compares to $173 million, as calculated as of December 31, 2019.  While these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected.  The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve.  In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel.

87

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued) 

FORD CREDIT MARKET RISK

Market risk for Ford Credit is the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value.  

Interest Rate Risk

.  Generally, Ford Credit’s assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates.

Ford Credit’s assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail financing and operating lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables.  Fixed-rate retail financing and operating lease contracts generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract.  Wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers’ inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate.

Debt consists primarily of short- and long-term unsecured and securitized debt.  Ford Credit’s term debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity.

Ford Credit’s interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance that may vary by market.  Ford Credit uses economic value sensitivity analysis and re-pricing gap analysis to evaluate potential long-term effects of changes in interest rates.  It then enters into interest rate swaps to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that Ford Credit’s exposure falls within the established tolerances.  Ford Credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure.  The pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with Ford Credit’s interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon.  Ford Credit’s Asset-Liability Committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution.  

To provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates across all maturities (a “parallel shift”), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels.  In reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in Ford Credit’s analysis.  As a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below.  These interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent Ford Credit’s view of future interest rate movements.

Under these interest rate scenarios, Ford Credit expects more debt and liabilities than assets to re-price in the next twelve months.  Other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest received on Ford Credit’s assets will increase less than the interest paid on Ford Credit’s debt, thereby initially decreasing Ford Credit’s pre-tax cash flow.  During a period of falling interest rates, Ford Credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially increase.  Ford Credit’s pre-tax cash flow sensitivity to interest rate movement is highlighted in the table below.

Pre-tax cash flow sensitivity at December 31 was as follows (in millions):

Pre-Tax Cash Flow Sensitivity

2019

2020

One percentage point instantaneous 

increase

 in interest rates

$

(26)

$

(3)

One percentage point instantaneous 

decrease

 in interest rates (a)

26 

3 

__________

(a)

Pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent.

While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credit’s best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected.  The model Ford Credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions.  Embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail financing and operating lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity.  Ford Credit’s repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience.  If interest rates or other factors change, Ford Credit’s actual prepayment experience could be different than projected.

88