>Item 7.







Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations







36










Item 7A.







Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk







57













Item 8.







Financial Statements and Supplementary Data







58













 







Consolidated Financial Statements







62













 







Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements







67













 







Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts







103













Item 9.







Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure







104













Item 9A.







Controls and Procedures







104













Item 9B.







Other Information







104













PART III













Item 10.







Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance







105













Item 11.







Executive Compensation







105













Item 12.







Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters







105













Item 13.







Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence







105













Item 14.







Principal Accounting Fees and Services







105













PART IV













Item 15.







Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules







106













Item 16.







Form 10-K Summary







114













 







Signatures







115







 







 




 







 




PART I 




 
















ITEM 1.







BUSINESS 




 




MGM Resorts International is referred to as the “Company,” “MGM Resorts,” or the “Registrant,” and together with its subsidiaries may also be referred to as “we,” “us” or “our.” MGM China Holdings Limited together with its subsidiaries is referred to as “MGM China.” Except where the context indicates otherwise, “MGP” refers to MGM Growth Properties LLC together with its consolidated subsidiaries.




 




Overview




 




MGM Resorts International is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1986 that acts largely as a holding company and, through subsidiaries, owns and operates integrated casino, hotel, and entertainment resorts across the United States and in Macau.




 




We believe we own or invest in several of the finest casino resorts in the world and we continually reinvest in our resorts to maintain our competitive advantage. We make significant investments in our resorts through newly remodeled hotel rooms, restaurants, entertainment and nightlife offerings, as well as other new features and amenities. We believe we operate the highest quality resorts in each of the markets in which we operate. Ensuring our resorts are the premier resorts in their respective markets requires capital investments to maintain the best possible experiences for our guests. 




 




MGM Growth Properties LLC (“MGP”), is a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. Substantially all of its assets are owned by and substantially all of its businesses are conducted through its subsidiary MGM Growth Properties Operating Partnership LP (the “Operating Partnership”). As of December 31, 2020, pursuant to a master lease agreement between a subsidiary of ours and a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, we lease the real estate assets of The Mirage, Luxor, New York-New York, Park MGM, Excalibur, The Park, Gold Strike Tunica, MGM Grand Detroit, Beau Rivage, Borgata, Empire City, MGM National Harbor, and MGM Northfield Park. See Note 1 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding MGP and the Operating Partnership, which we consolidate in our financial statements, and Note 18 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding the master lease with MGP. 

Pursuant to a lease agreement between a subsidiary of ours and a venture that is 5% owned by such subsidiary and 95% owned by a subsidiary of Blackstone Real Estate Income Trust, Inc. (“BREIT”, and such venture, the “Bellagio BREIT Venture”), we lease the real estate assets of Bellagio

. Additionally, pursuant to a lease agreement between a subsidiary of ours and a venture that is 50.1% owned by a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership and 49.9% by a subsidiary of BREIT (such venture, the “MGP BREIT Venture”), we lease the real estate assets of Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas. Refer to Note 11 for further discussion of the leases.




 




Business Developments




 




In August 2016, we acquired the remaining 50% ownership interest in Borgata, at which time Borgata became a wholly owned consolidated subsidiary of ours. Subsequently, MGP acquired Borgata’s real property from us and Borgata was added to the master lease between us and MGP. In December 2016, we opened MGM National Harbor and, in October 2017, MGP also acquired the long-term leasehold interest and real property associated with MGM National Harbor from us and MGM National Harbor was added to the master lease between us and MGP.




 




In February 2018, we opened MGM Cotai, an integrated casino, hotel and entertainment resort on the Cotai Strip in Macau, and in August 2018, we opened MGM Springfield in Springfield, Massachusetts. 




 




In July 2018, MGP acquired the membership interests of Northfield Park Associates, LLC (“Northfield”), an Ohio limited liability company that owned the real estate assets and operations of the Hard Rock Rocksino Northfield Park (“Northfield Acquisition”). In April 2019, we acquired the membership interests of Northfield from MGP and MGP retained the associated real estate assets. We then rebranded the property to MGM Northfield Park and added it to the master lease between us and MGP. 




 




In July 2018, we and Entain plc (“Entain”) formed BetMGM LLC (“BetMGM”), a venture that is owned 50% by each party. In connection with its formation, we provided BetMGM with exclusive access to all of our domestic land-based and online sports betting, major tournament poker, and online gaming operations and Entain provided BetMGM with exclusive access to its technology in the United States.




 




In January 2019, we acquired the real property and operations associated with Empire City Casino's racetrack and casino ("Empire City"). Subsequently, MGP acquired Empire City’s developed real property from us and Empire City was added to the master lease between us and MGP.




 




1







 




In March 2019, we entered into an amendment to the master lease between us and MGP with respect to i

mprovements 

made by us related to the

 rebranding of the

 Park MGM and NoMad Las Vegas property (the “Park MGM

 

Transaction”). 




 




Additionally, in 

November 2019, the Bellagio BREIT Venture was formed, which acquired the Bellagio real estate assets from us and leased such assets back to us pursuant to a lease agreement. The lease provides for a term of thirty years with two ten year renewal options and has an initial annual base rent of $245 million, escalating annually at a rate of 2% per annum for the first ten years and thereafter equal to the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year subject to a cap of 3% during the 11th through 20th years and 4% thereafter. In addition, the lease obligates us to spend a specified percentage of net revenues at the property on capital expenditures and that we comply with certain financial covenants, which, if not met, would require us to maintain cash security or provide one or more letters of credit in favor of the landlord in an amount equal to rent for the succeeding two year period. In exchange for the contribution of the real estate assets, w

e received total consideration of $4.25 billion, which consisted of a 5% equity interest in the venture and approximately $4.2 billion in cash. We also provide a shortfall guarantee of the principal amount of indebtedness of the Bellagio BREIT Venture (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon).




 




In December 2019, we completed the sale of Circus Circus Las Vegas and adjacent land for $825 million, which consisted of $662.5 million paid in cash and a secured note due 2024 with a face value of $162.5 million and fair value of $133.7 million.




 




On February 14, 2020, we completed a series of transactions (collectively the “MGP BREIT Venture Transaction”) pursuant to which the real estate assets of MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay (including Mandalay Place) were contributed to the newly formed MGP BREIT Venture. In exchange for the contribution of the real estate assets, MGM and MGP received total consideration of $4.6 billion, which was comprised of $2.5 billion of cash, $1.3 billion of the Operating Partnership’s secured indebtedness assumed by the MGP BREIT Venture, and the Operating Partnership’s 50.1% equity interest in the MGP BREIT Venture. In addition, the Operating Partnership issued approximately 3 million Operating Partnership units to us representing 5% of the equity value of the MGP BREIT Venture. We also provide a shortfall guarantee of the principal amount of indebtedness of the MGP BREIT Venture (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon). On the closing date, BREIT also purchased approximately 5 million MGP Class A shares for $150 million.




 




In connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction, MGP BREIT Venture entered into a lease with us for the real estate assets of Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas. The lease provides for a term of thirty years with two ten-year renewal options and has an initial annual base rent of $292 million, escalating annually at a rate of 2% per annum for the first fifteen years and thereafter equal to the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year subject to a cap of 3%. In addition, the lease obligates us to spend a specified percentage of net revenues at the properties on capital expenditures and that we comply with certain financial covenants, which, if not met, would require us to maintain cash security or provide one or more letters of credit in favor of the landlord in an amount equal to the rent for the succeeding one-year period. Additionally, the master lease with MGP was modified to remove the Mandalay Bay property and the annual cash rent under the MGP master lease was reduced by $133 million.




 




Also, on January 14, 2020, we, the Operating Partnership, and MGP entered into an agreement for the Operating Partnership to waive its right following the closing of the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction to issue MGP Class A shares, in lieu of cash, to us in connection with us exercising our right to require the Operating Partnership to redeem the Operating Partnership units that we hold, at a price per unit equal to a 3% discount to the ten day average closing price prior to the date of the notice of redemption. The waiver was effective upon closing of the transaction on February 14, 2020 and was scheduled to terminate on the earlier of February 14, 2022 or upon our receipt of cash proceeds of $1.4 billion as consideration for the redemption of our Operating Partnership units. On May 18, 2020 the Operating Partnership redeemed approximately 30 million Operating Partnership units that we held for $700 million, or $23.10 per unit, and on December 2, 2020, the Operating Partnership redeemed approximately 24 million Operating Partnership units that we held for the remaining $700 million, or $29.78 per unit. As a result, the waiver terminated in accordance with its terms. 




 




Financial Impact of COVID-19.

 The spread of the novel 2019 coronavirus (“COVID-19”) and developments surrounding the global pandemic have had, and we expect will continue to have, a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in 2021. In March 2020, all of our domestic properties temporarily closed pursuant to state and local government restrictions imposed as a result of COVID-19. Throughout the second and third quarters of 2020, all of our properties re-opened to the public but continue to operate without certain amenities and subject to certain occupancy limitations, with restrictions varying by jurisdiction and with further temporary re-closures and re-openings occurring for our properties or portions of our properties into the first quarter of 2021. In response to reduced demand, we temporarily closed the hotel tower operations at Mandalay Bay and Park MGM midweek and temporarily closed The Mirage midweek

, which are expected to resume full week operations on March 3, 2021

. Accordingly, our properties have continued to generate revenues that are significantly lower than historical results. In addition, as a result of the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the emergence of variant strains, our properties may be subject to temporary, complete, or partial shutdowns in the future. At this time, we cannot predict whether the jurisdictions in which our properties are located, states or the federal government will continue to impose operating restrictions on us or adopt similar or more restrictive measures in the future, including stay-at-home orders or ordering the temporary closures of all or a portion of our 




2







 




properties.

 

We have implemented certain measures to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including limit

ations

 on the number of gaming tables allowed to operate and on the number of seats at each table game, as well as slot machine spacing, temperature checks, mask protection, limitations on restaurant capacity, entertainment events and conventions, as well as other measures to enforce social distancing. 

In addition, f

ollowing a temporary closure of 

our

 properties in Macau on February 5, 2020, operations resumed on February 20, 2020, subject to certain health safeguards, such as limiting the number of gaming tables allowed to operate and the number of seats available at each table game, slot machine spacing, reduced operating hours at a number of restaurants and bars, temperature checks, mask protection and the need to present negative COVID-19 test results and health declarations submitted through the Macau Health Code system which remain in effect. Effective July 15, 2020, all guests entering our 

casinos

 were required to provide a negative nucleic acid test result with a valid ‘green’ Macau Health Code. Although the issuance of tourist visas (including the individual visa scheme

 (“IVS”)

) for residents of Zhuhai, Guangdong Province and all other provinces in mainland China to travel to Macau resumed on August 12, 2020, August 26, 2020 and September 23, 2020, respectively, several travel and entry restrictions in Macau, Hong Kong and mainland China remain in place (including the temporary suspension of ferry services from Hong Kong to Macau, the nucleic acid test result certificate and mandatory quarantine requirements for visitors from Hong Kong

 and 

Taiwan

,

 and bans on entry or enhanced quarantine requirements on other visitors into Macau)

, which 

have 

significantly impact

ed

 visitation to our Macau properties

.




 




While we have engaged in aggressive cost reduction efforts to minimize cash outflows while our properties were initially closed, and have continued to engage in such efforts as the properties have re-opened, we still have significant fixed and variable expenses, which have and will continue to adversely affect our profitability. In addition, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, weakened demand at our properties as a result of continued domestic and international travel restrictions or warnings, restrictions on amenity use, such as gaming, restaurant and pool capacity limitations, consumer fears and reduced consumer discretionary spending, general economic uncertainty, and increased rates of unemployment. In light of the foregoing, we are unable to determine when our properties will return to pre-pandemic demand and pricing, or if our properties will remain re-opened. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations during 2020 and we expect that it will continue to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations during 2021 and potentially thereafter.




 




Resort Operations 




 




General 




 




Most of our revenue is cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards. We rely heavily on the ability of our resorts to generate operating cash flow to fund capital expenditures, provide excess cash flow for future development, acquisitions or investments, and repay debt financings.




 




Our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature as all of our casino resorts, except as otherwise described related to the impact of COVID-19, typically operate 24 hours a day, every day of the year, with the exception of Empire City Casino which operates 20 hours a day, every day of the year, though a variety of factors may affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major conventions, Far East baccarat volumes, the amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end gaming customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including New Year and Lunar New Year. Our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and managed by us. Other resort amenities may be owned and operated by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for a fee, or leased to third parties. We also lease space to third party retail and food and beverage operators, particularly for branding opportunities.




 




As of December 31, 2020, we have three reportable segments: Las Vegas Strip Resorts, Regional Operations, and MGM China. 




 




Las Vegas Strip Resorts and Regional Operations




Las Vegas Strip Resorts.

 Las Vegas Strip Resorts consists of the following casino resorts:

 

Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas (including The Signature), Mandalay Bay (including Delano and Four Seasons), The Mirage, Luxor, New York-New York (including The Park), Excalibur, Park MGM (including NoMad Las Vegas) and Circus Circus Las Vegas (until the sale of such property in December 2019).




Regional Operations.

 Regional Operations consists of the following casino resorts: MGM Grand Detroit in Detroit, Michigan; Beau Rivage in Biloxi, Mississippi; Gold Strike Tunica in Tunica, Mississippi; Borgata in Atlantic City, New Jersey; MGM National Harbor in Prince George’s County, Maryland; MGM Springfield in Springfield, Massachusetts; Empire City in Yonkers, New York (upon its acquisition in January 2019); and MGM Northfield Park in Northfield Park, Ohio (upon MGM’s acquisition of the operations from MGP in April 2019).




 




3







 




Over half of the net revenue from our domestic resorts is 

typically 

derived from non-gaming operations, including hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and other non-gaming amenities. 

Although we have been operating without certain amenities and subject to certain limitations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic

, our long-term strategy is to

 market to different customers and utilize our significant convention and meeting facilities to allow us to maximize hotel occupancy and customer volumes which also leads to better labor utilization. Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume of customers at our 

properties

, which in turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and other amenities.




 




Our casino operations feature a variety of slots and table games, and, through BetMGM, we offer online sports betting and iGaming in certain jurisdictions in the United States. In addition, we provide our premium players access to high-limit rooms and lounge experiences where players may enjoy an upscale atmosphere. 




 




MGM China




 




We own approximately 56% of MGM China, which owns MGM Grand Paradise, S.A. (“MGM Grand Paradise”), the Macau company that owns and operates the MGM Macau and MGM Cotai casino resorts and the related gaming subconcession and land concessions. We believe our ownership interest in MGM China plays an important role in extending our reach internationally and will foster future growth and profitability. Although visitation during 2020 was significantly reduced by the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect the long-term future growth of the Asian gaming market to drive additional visitation at MGM Macau and MGM Cotai.




 




Our current MGM China operations relate to MGM Macau and MGM Cotai, discussed further below. MGM China’s revenues are generated primarily from gaming operations which are conducted under a gaming subconcession held by MGM Grand Paradise. The Macau government has granted three gaming concessions and each of these concessionaires has granted a subconcession. The MGM Grand Paradise gaming subconcession was granted by Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, S.A., which expires in 2022. The Macau government currently prohibits additional concessions and subconcessions, but does not place a limit on the number of casinos or gaming areas operated by the concessionaires and subconcessionaires, though additional casinos or gaming areas require government approval prior to commencing operations. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to our Business — The Macau government can terminate MGM Grand Paradise’s subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM Grand Paradise, exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession, or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2022, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.”




 




Corporate and Other 




 




We 

have additional business activities including our investments in unconsolidated affiliates, and certain other corporate and management operations. Our unconsolidated affiliates include the ventures with BREIT discussed elsewhere, BetMGM, and CityCenter Holdings, LLC (“CityCenter”), which we also manage for a fee, among others.




 




See Note 17 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for detailed financial information about our segments.




 




4







 




Our Operating Resorts 




 




We have provided certain information below about our resorts as of December 31, 2020. 




 
















 







 







Number of







 







 







Approximate







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













 







 







Guestrooms







 







 







Casino

 

Square







 







 







 







 







 







 







Gaming







 













Name and Location







 







and Suites







 







 







Footage

 (1)







 







 







Slots 

(2)







 







 







Tables 

(3)







 













Las Vegas Strip Resorts:







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Bellagio







 







 







3,933







 







 







 







155,000







 







 







 







1,415







 







 







 







148







 













MGM Grand Las Vegas 

(4)







 







 







6,071







 







 







 







169,000







 







 







 







1,270







 







 







 







98







 













Mandalay Bay 

(5)







 







 







4,750







 







 







 







152,000







 







 







 







1,117







 







 







 







60







 













The Mirage







 







 







3,044







 







 







 







94,000







 







 







 







819







 







 







 







69







 













Luxor







 







 







4,397







 







 







 







101,000







 







 







 







859







 







 







 







48







 













Excalibur







 







 







3,981







 







 







 







94,000







 







 







 







927







 







 







 







41







 













New York-New York







 







 







2,024







 







 







 







81,000







 







 







 







992







 







 







 







51







 













Park MGM 

(6)







 







 







2,898







 







 







 







66,000







 







 







 







766







 







 







 







58







 













Subtotal







 







 







31,098







 







 







 







912,000







 







 







 







8,165







 







 







 







573







 













Regional Operations:







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













MGM Grand Detroit (Detroit, Michigan) 

(7)







 







 







400







 







 







 







151,000







 







 







 







3,079







 







 







 







127







 













Beau Rivage (Biloxi, Mississippi)







 







 







1,740







 







 







 







87,000







 







 







 







1,681







 







 







 







75







 













Gold Strike (Tunica, Mississippi)







 







 







1,133







 







 







 







48,000







 







 







 







948







 







 







 







66







 













Borgata (Atlantic City, New Jersey)







 







 







2,767







 







 







 







160,000







 







 







 







2,856







 







 







 







189







 













MGM National Harbor (Prince George's County, Maryland) 

(8)







 







 







308







 







 







 







146,000







 







 







 







2,603







 







 







 







171







 













MGM Springfield (Springfield, Massachusetts)

 (9)







 







 







240







 







 







 







126,000







 







 







 







1,841







 







 







 







38







 













MGM Northfield Park (Northfield, Ohio)







 







 







—







 







 







 







92,000







 







 







 







1,869







 







 







 







—







 













Empire City (Yonkers, New York)







 







 







—







 







 







 







137,000







 







 







 







4,693







 







 







 







—







 













Subtotal







 







 







6,588







 







 







 







947,000







 







 







 







19,570







 







 







 







666







 













MGM China:







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













MGM Macau 

–

 55.95% owned (Macau S.A.R.)







 







 







582







 







 







 







307,000







 







 







 







1,079







 







 







 







279







 













MGM Cotai – 55.95% owned (Macau S.A.R.)







 







 







1,390







 







 







 







298,000







 







 







 







1,098







 







 







 







273







 













Subtotal







 







 







1,972







 







 







 







605,000







 







 







 







2,177







 







 







 







552







 













Other Operations:







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













CityCenter 

–

 50% owned (Las Vegas, Nevada) 

(10)







 







 







5,499







 







 







 







139,000







 







 







 







1,344







 







 







 







120







 













Subtotal







 







 







5,499







 







 







 







139,000







 







 







 







1,344







 







 







 







120







 













Grand total







 







 







45,157







 







 







 







2,603,000







 







 







 







31,256







 







 







 







1,911







 










 
















 

(

1

)







Casino square footage is approximate and includes the gaming floor, race and sports, high limit areas and casino specific walkways, and excludes casino cage and other non-gaming space within the casino area.
















(

2

)







Includes slot machines, video poker machines and other electronic gaming devices. Also includes gaming devices temporarily out of service due to COVID-19 restrictions.
















(

3

)







Includes blackjack (“21”), baccarat, craps, roulette and other table games; does not include poker. Also includes gaming tables temporarily out of service due to COVID-19 restrictions.
















(

4

)







Includes 1,078 rooms at The Signature at MGM Grand Las Vegas.
















(

5

)







Includes 1,117 rooms at the Delano and 424 rooms at the Four Seasons Hotel.
















(

6

)







Includes 293 rooms at NoMad Las Vegas.
















(

7

)







Our local investors have an ownership interest of approximately 3% of MGM Grand Detroit. 
















(

8

)







Our local investors have a non-voting economic interest in MGM National Harbor. Refer to Note 2 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further description of such interest.
















(

9

)







Our local investor has a non-voting economic interest in MGM Springfield.
















(

1

0

)







Includes Aria with 4,004 rooms. Vdara includes 1,495 condo-hotel units, which are predominantly utilized as company-owned hotel rooms. The other 50% of CityCenter is owned by Infinity World Development Corp.




 




5







 




Customers and Competition 




 




Our properties operate in highly competitive environments. We compete against gaming companies, as well as other hospitality companies in the markets in which we operate, neighboring markets, and in other parts of the world, including non-gaming resort destinations such as Hawaii. Our gaming operations compete to a lesser extent with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card parlors, iGaming and other forms of legalized gaming in the United States and internationally. For further discussion of the potential impact of competitive conditions on our business, see “Risk Factors — Risks Related to our Business — We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.”




 




Our primary methods of successful competition include:
















 







•







Locating our resorts in desirable leisure and business travel markets and operating at superior sites within those markets;
















 







•







Constructing and maintaining high-quality resorts and facilities, including luxurious guestrooms, state-of-the-art convention facilities and premier dining, entertainment, retail and other amenities;
















 







•







Recruiting, training and retaining well-qualified and motivated employees who provide superior customer service;
















 







•







Providing unique, “must-see” entertainment attractions; and
















 







•







Developing distinctive and memorable marketing, promotional and customer loyalty programs.




 




Las Vegas Strip Resorts and Regional Operations




 




Our customers include premium gaming customers; leisure and wholesale travel customers; business travelers, and group customers, including conventions, trade associations, and small meetings. We have a diverse portfolio of properties, which appeal to the upper end of each market segment and also cater to leisure and value-oriented tour and travel customers. Many of our properties have significant convention and meeting space which we utilize to drive business to our properties during midweek and off-peak periods.




 




Our Las Vegas casino resorts compete for customers with a large number of other hotel casinos in the Las Vegas area, including major hotel casinos on or near the Las Vegas Strip, major hotel casinos in the downtown area, which is about five miles from the center of the Las Vegas Strip, and several major hotel casinos elsewhere in the Las Vegas area. Our Las Vegas Strip Resorts also compete, in part, with each other. Major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity and convention space offerings, or have plans to expand their capacity or construct new resorts in Las Vegas. Also, the growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas.




 




Outside Nevada, our resorts primarily compete with other hotel casinos in their markets and for customers in surrounding regional gaming markets, where location is a critical factor to success. In addition, we compete with gaming operations in surrounding jurisdictions and other leisure destinations in each region. 




 




MGM China




 




The three primary customer bases in the Macau gaming market are VIP gaming operations, main floor gaming operations and slot machine operations. VIP gaming play is sourced both internally and externally. Externally sourced VIP gaming play is obtained through external gaming promoters who assist VIP players with their travel and entertainment arrangements. Gaming promoters are compensated through payment of revenue-sharing arrangements and rolling chip turnover-based commissions. In-house VIP players also typically receive a commission based on the program in which they participate. Unlike gaming promoters and in-house VIP players, main floor players do not receive commissions. The profit contribution from the main floor gaming operations exceeds the VIP gaming operations due to commission costs paid to gaming promoters. We offer amenities to attract players such as premium gaming lounges and stadium-style electronic table games terminals, which include both table games and slots to create a dedicated exclusive gaming space for premium main floor players’ use, as well as non-gaming amenities, such as The Mansion to attract ultra-high end customers. 




6







 




VIP gaming at MGM China is conducted by the use of special purpose nonnegotiable gaming chips. Gaming promoters purchase these nonnegotiable chips and in turn they sell these chips to their players. The nonnegotiable chips allow us to track the amount of wagering conducted by each gaming promoters’ clients in order to determine VIP gaming play. Gaming promoter commissions are based on a percentage of the gross table games win or a percentage of the table games turnover they generate. They also receive a complimentary allowance based on a percentage of the table games turnover they generate, which can be applied to hotel rooms, food and beverage and other discretionary customer-related expenses. Gaming promoter commissions are recorded as a reduction of casino revenue. In-house VIP commissions are based on a percentage of rolling chip turnover and are recorded as a reduction of casino revenue. 




Our key competitors in Macau include five other gaming concessionaires and subconcessionaires. If the Macau government were to grant additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, we face competition at our Macau and Cotai properties from concessionaires who have expanded their operations, primarily on the Cotai Strip.




 




We encounter competition from major gaming centers located in other areas of Asia and around the world including, but not limited to, Singapore, South Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia, the Philippines, Australia, and Las Vegas. 




 




Marketing




 




Our marketing efforts are conducted through various means, including our loyalty programs. We advertise on radio, television, internet and billboards and in newspapers and magazines in selected cities throughout the United States and overseas, as well as by direct mail, email and through the use of social media. We also advertise through our regional marketing offices located in major U.S. and foreign cities. Our direct marketing efforts utilize advanced analytic techniques that identify customer preferences and help predict future customer behavior, allowing us to make more relevant offers to customers, influence incremental visits, and help build lasting customer relationships. 




 




M life Rewards, our customer loyalty program, is a tiered program and allows customers to qualify for benefits across our participating resorts and in both gaming and non-gaming areas, encouraging customers to keep their total spend within our casino resorts. We also offer the Golden Lion Club for gaming focused customers, in addition to M life Rewards, at MGM China. The structured rewards systems based on member value and tier level ensure that customers can progressively access the full range of services that the resorts provide. Our loyalty programs focus on building a rewarding relationship with our customers, encouraging members to increase both visitation and spend.




 




Strategy 




 




We strive to be a leader in the global gaming, entertainment and hospitality industry that delivers extraordinary entertainment across a portfolio of properties in the United States and Macau. The quality of our properties and amenities is evidenced by our success in winning numerous awards, both domestic and globally, including several Four and Five Diamond designations from the American Automobile Association, multiple Four and Five Star designations from Forbes Travel Guide and numerous certifications of our Corporate Social Responsibility efforts.




 




Our strategic objectives include:
















 







•







People.

 Implement programs to enhance recruitment, talent management and development, as well as diversity and inclusion, to support the achievement of key business drivers including guest experience, community engagement and financial goals.
















 







•







Operational excellence.

 

Exceed customer expectations through tailored experiences, innovative solutions and quality service to maximize financial results.
















 







•







Growth.

 Execute a targeted approach to growth to become a premier global omni-channel gaming, hospitality and entertainment company, increasing global brand presence in international markets and through establishing ourselves as a data driven company focused on identifying high value customers, enhancing guest experiences through technology and service, growing brand loyalty and capturing greater market share.
















 







•







Capital allocation.

 Disciplined investment of cashflows in growth opportunities.




 




In allocating resources, our financial strategy is focused on managing a proper mix of investing in existing properties, spending on strategic developments or initiatives, repaying long-term debt and returning capital to shareholders. We believe there are reasonable investments for us to make in new initiatives and at our current resorts that will provide profitable returns. 




 




We regularly evaluate possible expansion and acquisition opportunities in domestic and international markets, including the ownership, management and operation of gaming and other entertainment facilities and  accessing new markets for sports and interactive, as well as iGaming and online sports betting. We also leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands 




7







 




through strategic partnerships and international expansion opportunities. We feel that several of our brands are well-suited to new projects in both gaming and non-gaming developments. We may undertake these opportunities either alone or in cooperation with one or more third parties

. 




 




During 2019 and 2020, we delivered on our “MGM 2020 Plan”, a portfolio of improvement initiatives designed to improve the results of our operations, which were primarily comprised of labor, sourcing and revenue programs. We continued to invest in our operating model by expanding the footprint of our Centers of Excellence and enabling best in class operations through adjustments within corporate and property business units. In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented several cost cutting initiatives in 2020 that have further improved our operating model and will, together with our MGM 2020 Plan, position us as a stronger company when our business volumes return to 2019 levels. Further detail on these cost reduction efforts can be found elsewhere in this Annual Report Form 10-K.




 




We have continued to focus on our key growth opportunities of developing an integrated resort in Japan and investing in our BetMGM venture. We believe that BetMGM is positioned as a long-term leader in the U.S. online sports betting and iGaming industries with growing market access and market share. As part of our commitment to the success of our BetMGM joint venture, we have integrated our M life program with BetMGM and have BetMGM branded on-property sportsbooks and kiosks to drive higher value customers at lower acquisition costs through a robust omni-channel strategy.




 




Technology




 




We utilize technology to maximize revenue and to drive efficiency in our operations. Additionally, technology is core to our ability to provide an enhanced customer and employee experience. We believe that digital platforms and customer experiences are critical to differentiation in our marketplace and are critical components to drive growth in our business. Keeping health and safety in mind, we accelerated and reimagined several aspects of the guest experience this year through self-service technology. This includes a newly revamped contactless check-in, which allows guests to complete the check-in process entirely themselves through our mobile app, digital menus, and virtual queues for guests when immediate seating is unavailable or for controlling occupancy at food and beverage outlets, pools and spa, and salon facilities. In addition, we now offer the option of contactless payments across our resort experience and have started piloting mobile order and pay solutions at select owned and operated restaurants. While we have started on this journey, key investments in technology are needed to continue to lay the groundwork for our initial ambition for the MGM 2020 Plan, focused on digital transformation to drive revenue growth.




 




Environmental & Social Responsibility 




 




At MGM Resorts we have had a long-standing commitment to environmental and social responsibility. For over a decade, the Company has had a dedicated board committee focused on Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”). In 2019, we bolstered governance of these topics by uniting the key pillars of Diversity and Inclusion, Philanthropy and Community Engagement and Environmental Sustainability under one new, Executive Committee-level leader who manages the Social Impact and Sustainability Center of Excellence, reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer and President and serves as liaison to the CSR board committee.




 




The Social Impact and Sustainability team stewards our commitment to Focus on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet and helps us progress on our fourteen publicly stated 2025 goals. Examples of these goals include 

Ensure all employees have equal access to leadership opportunities; Donate 5 million meals through our Feeding Forward program; and Reduce carbon emissions per square foot by 45%

. The full list of goals and performance against them are available at mgmresorts.com/focused. The content on this website is for informational purposes only and such content is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 




We are committed to aligning disclosures to prevailing Environmental, Social Governance (“ESG”) frameworks. Strategic priorities are mapped to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals where we believe we can most positively impact our stakeholders and the planet. We have submitted to CDP Climate since 2010 and obtained an A- rating in the last two disclosure cycles. As of December 31, 2020, we had achieved the highest score possible (1/10) in both the environmental and social aspects of the Institutional Shareholder Services ESG QualityScore. In addition, we have conducted gap analyses against the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and Taskforce for Climate Related Financial Disclosures, and we expect to provide public disclosures against both standards in the future.




 




Each year we strive to make enhancements to our social impact and sustainability program, and in 2020 we completed a formal Materiality Assessment to obtain stakeholder input to inform future changes. Climate change, water and circularity of food and plastics were deemed by stakeholders to be our most material environmental issues, and human capital management and diversity and inclusion were deemed our most material social issues. In line with these findings, we refreshed our environmental strategy in 2020 and we expect to announce additional environmental goals in 2021. We also introduced a refreshed diversity and inclusion strategy with new workforce diversity dashboards for leadership. These take a data-driven approach to work towards providing equal opportunity for female and racial/ ethnically diverse talent within our business units, corporate functions and properties.




 




Finally, given the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, our company dedicated significant resources to mitigating the impact of COVID-19 on our workforce and communities. We partnered with the State of Nevada COVID-19 Taskforce to provide product 




8







 




sourcing and logistical support for priority healthcare-related needs; supported our employees and their immediate families through the MGM Resorts Foundation Employee Emergency Grant Fund; and, we donated over 500,000 meals to our community partners to help the food insecure.




 




Trademarks




 




Our principal intellectual property consists of trademarks for, among others, Bellagio, The Mirage, Borgata, Mandalay Bay, MGM, MGM Grand, MGM Resorts International, Luxor, Excalibur, New York-New York, Beau Rivage and Empire City, all of which have been registered or allowed in various classes in the United States. In addition, we have also registered or applied to register numerous other trademarks in connection with our properties, facilities and development projects in the United States and in various other foreign jurisdictions. These trademarks are brand names under which we market our properties and services. We consider these brand names to be important to our business since they have the effect of developing brand identification. We believe that the name recognition, reputation and image that we have developed attract customers to our facilities. Once granted, our trademark registrations are of perpetual duration so long as they are used and periodically renewed. It is our intent to pursue and maintain our trademark registrations consistent with our goals for brand development and identification, and enforcement of our trademark rights. 




 




Human Capital 




 




We are focused on fostering a people-driven culture exemplified by how we lead and uphold our core values of teamwork, inclusion, integrity, and excellence, to create an engaged and diverse workforce. Our long-term people strategy is designed to enhance talent attraction and development to support business objectives, guest experience, community engagement, and financial goals.  Our workforce development strategies support local hiring and developing a robust workforce in the local communities in which we operate through veteran support, community training and employment, fulfilling local hiring commitments (where applicable), and through internship and management development programs.




 




Growth and Development




 




We invest significant resources to develop the talent needed, now and in the future, to continue to be a premier employer of choice across the gaming, hospitality, and entertainment industries. We are committed to a culture of continuous learning where employees, at all levels, are engaged in developing their knowledge, skills, and abilities and we

 support the long-term career aspirations of our employees through education and professional/personal development

. Except as otherwise temporarily impacted due to COVID-19, we offer tuition reimbursement, contribute toward student loan debt repayment, and have partnered with the Nevada System of Higher Education to allow employees to earn a degree online free of charge for all credit hours.




 




Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (“ED&I”)




 




Our approach to ED&I is anchored by our corporate and people strategies and a social impact and sustainability approach that centers on embracing humanity and protecting the planet.  A concise framework lays out four strategic pillars to guide our work:  invest in people; build an inclusive culture; grow business and customer engagement and supplier diversity; and, enhance marketplace leadership and community relations.  As part of our commitment, we have committed to the following four long-range goals: (1) ensure that all employees have equal access to leadership opportunities, (2) spend at least 10% of our biddable procurement with diverse suppliers, (3) expand our Supplier Diversity Mentorship Program to achieve 50 graduates and (4) train 100% of management employees on social impact policies and goals.  In connection with each goal, we have established robust key performance indicators, which are tracked and published in our annual social impact and sustainability report, which is available at 

https://www.mgmresorts.com/en/company/csr.html

. The content on this website is for informational purposes only and such content is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we have detailed internal Human Capital workforce reports, which include demographic and diversity data, and are reviewed with the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of the Board, leadership teams and executive management on a regular basis. 




 




Internally, we use multiple channels to facilitate communication and to continuously advance our core value of inclusiveness. The channels include but are not limited to open forums with executives, employee engagement surveys with detailed action planning, and employee network groups.




 




Work in the area of equity, diversity and inclusion is advanced through a range of programs and initiatives which include education and training, community partnerships, recruitment and talent development, advocacy and outreach.  Responsibility is driven and led by the Company’s Chief People, Inclusion and Sustainability Officer, who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer and President, and is supported by a centralized diversity and inclusion team and the Human Resources department.




 




9







 




Health, Safety, and Wellness




 




In order to promote our culture of overall employee health and wellness we provide benefits, tools and resources to help maintain or improve physical, mental, and financial health. We continue to align benefit offerings to the needs of a diverse workforce across an expanded regional presence and leverage innovative digital solutions to expand access to health and wellness resources, including the recent additions of virtual maternity coach, depression and anxiety counseling, and diabetic disease management and endocrinology care.




 




To ensure our employees' continued health, safety, and wellness in response to COVID-19, we coordinated with medical experts to put in place extensive protocols for our employees, including screening questions, employee temperature checks, and ongoing training programs on health and safety protocols. As a commitment to our employees impacted by the pandemic, we have maintained benefits eligibility for many employees who were furloughed in 2020 and unable to work enough hours to otherwise qualify. We also extended health coverage for those terminated as a result of the pandemic for varied periods of time following their separation from the Company.




 




Community Engagement and Philanthropy




 




Our philanthropic focus centers around: 

Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet

. We organize our major programs and initiatives under the pillars of 

caring for one another

 and 

investing in the community

.  We established the MGM Resorts Foundation in 2002 as an engagement opportunity for employees to contribute to charitable causes, which provides two types of grants (1) the Employee Emergency Grant, which benefits our employees, and (2) the Community Grant, which benefits local communities. 

We endeavor to care for our communities through volunteerism and philanthropy and encourage all of our employees to volunteer through a variety of programs. In addition, we offer opportunities for our employees to give back to their communities, including through programs such as VolunteerREWARDS, which provides employees with opportunities to earn grant money to their charity of choice based on volunteer hours.  




 




Employees and Labor Relations




 




As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 35,000 full-time and 7,000 part-time employees domestically (excluding approximately 5,000 and 6,000 furloughed employees, respectively, that are no longer receiving any compensation or benefits from the Company), of which approximately 4,000 and 1,000, respectively, support the Company’s management agreements with CityCenter (each excluding approximately 1,000 furloughed employees). In addition, we had approximately 10,000 employees at MGM China. We had collective bargaining agreements with unions covering approximately 24,000 of our employees as of December 31, 2020 (excluding approximately 10,000 furloughed employees). Collective bargaining agreements covering a number of employee job classifications in our Las Vegas properties are scheduled to expire in the first half of 2021. We anticipate negotiations for successor contracts covering those employees are scheduled to begin in the first and second quarters of 2021. In addition, in our regional properties, successor collective bargaining agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 2021 for Empire City. Negotiations for first time collective bargaining agreements with several labor organizations were slowed or suspended during 2020. Those have resumed or are expected to resume in the first quarter of 2021. This includes employee bargaining units at MGM National Harbor, MGM Grand Las Vegas, MGM Northfield Park, and the MGM Resorts Operations Contact Center in Las Vegas. As of December 31, 2020, none of the employees of MGM China are part of a labor union and the resorts are not party to any collective bargaining agreements. 




 




Government Regulation and Licensing 




 




The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations. Each of our casinos is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interest in the gaming operations. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions.  




 




A more detailed description of the gaming regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference. 




 




Our businesses are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes (including regulations under the Americans with Disabilities Act, which requires all public accommodations to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by persons with disabilities), construction, land use and marketing and advertising. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject 




10







 




to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results. 




 




In addition, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. We have not identified any issues associated with our properties that could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on us or the results of our operations.




 




Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements 




 




This Form 10-K and our 2020 Annual Report to Stockholders contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “seeks,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “will,” “may” and similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our business, our ability to reduce expenses and otherwise maintain our liquidity position during the pandemic, our ability to generate significant cash flow, execute on ongoing and future strategic initiatives, including the development of an integrated resort in Japan and investments we make in online sports betting and iGaming, amounts we will spend on capital expenditures and investments, our expectations with respect to future share repurchases and cash dividends on our common stock, dividends and distributions we will receive from MGM China, the Operating Partnership or CityCenter, our ability to achieve the benefits of our cost savings initiatives, and amounts projected to be realized as deferred tax assets. The foregoing is not a complete list of all forward-looking statements we make. 




 




Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. Therefore, we caution you against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, regional, national or global political, economic, business, competitive, market, and regulatory conditions and the following: 




 
















 







•







the global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to materially impact our business, financial results and liquidity, and such impact could worsen and last for an unknown period of time;
















 







•







although all of our properties are open to the public, they are operating without certain amenities and subject to certain occupancy limitations, and we are unable to predict the length of time it will take for our properties to return to normal operations or if such properties will be required to close again due to the COVID-19 pandemic;
















 







•







we have undertaken aggressive actions to reduce costs and improve efficiencies to mitigate losses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could negatively impact guest loyalty and our ability to attract and retain employees;
















 







•







our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments to MGP, rent payments to the Bellagio BREIT Venture and to the MGP BREIT Venture, and guarantees we provide of the indebtedness of the Bellagio BREIT Venture and the MGP BREIT Venture could adversely affect our development options and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations; 
















 







•







current and future economic, capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed components of our rent payments, and to make planned expenditures; 
















 







•







restrictions and limitations in the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity; 
















 







•







the fact that we are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as rent, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth, service our indebtedness and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes;
















 







•







significant competition we face with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete; 
















 







•







the fact that our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations could adversely affect our business; 
















 







•







the impact on our business of economic and market conditions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside; 




11







 
















 







•







the possibility that we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of 

our 

cost savings initiatives, including our 

MGM 2020

 Plan

,

 or our asset light strategy

; 
















 







•







the fact that our ability to pay ongoing regular dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and certain other limitations; 
















 







•







Nearly all of our domestic gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with the lessor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations; 
















 







•







financial, operational, regulatory or other potential challenges that may arise with respect to MGP, as the lessor for a significant portion of our properties, may adversely impair our operations; 
















 







•







the fact that MGP has adopted a policy under which certain transactions with us, including transactions involving consideration in excess of $25 million, must be approved in accordance with certain specified procedures; 
















 







•







restrictions on our ability to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China; 
















 







•







the ability of the Macau government to terminate MGM Grand Paradise’s subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM Grand Paradise, exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession, or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2022; 
















 







•







the dependence of MGM Grand Paradise upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in Macau; 
















 







•







changes to fiscal and tax policies; 
















 







•







our ability to recognize our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset and the variability of the valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset; 
















 







•







extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business; 
















 







•







the concentration of a significant number of our major gaming resorts on the Las Vegas Strip; 
















 







•







the fact that we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect such gaming receivables;
















 







•







the potential occurrence of impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or long-lived assets which could negatively affect future profits; 
















 







•







the susceptibility of leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence, acts of war or hostility or outbreaks of infectious disease (including the COVID-19 pandemic);
















 







•







the fact that co-investing in properties, including our investment in CityCenter, decreases our ability to manage risk; 
















 







•







the fact that future construction, development, or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks; 
















 







•







the fact that our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future; 
















 







•







the fact that a failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business; 
















 







•







the risks associated with doing business outside of the United States and the impact of any potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti-corruption laws; 
















 







•







risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be brought against us; 
















 







•







the fact that a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements; 
















 







•







the sensitivity of our business to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results; 
















 







•







the potential that failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and internal customer information could result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or other restrictions on our use or transfer of data; 
















 







•







the potential reputational harm as a result of increased scrutiny related to our corporate social responsibility efforts; 
















 







•







the potential failure of future efforts to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, or to divest some of our properties and other assets; 
















 







•







increases in gaming taxes and fees in the jurisdictions in which we operate; and 
















 







•







the potential for conflicts of interest to arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM China.  




 




Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Form 10-K or our 2020 Annual Report to Stockholders speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law. If we update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be made that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. 




 




You should also be aware that while we from time to time communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose to them any material non-public information, internal forecasts or other confidential business information. Therefore, you should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain projections, forecasts or opinions, those reports are not our responsibility and are not endorsed by us.  




12







 




 




Information about our Executive Officers




 




The following table sets forth, as of February 26, 2021, the name, age and position of each of our executive officers. Executive officers are elected by and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. 




 
















Name







 







Age







 







Position













William J. Hornbuckle







 







63







 







Chief Executive Officer and President













Corey I. Sanders







 







57







 







Chief Operating Officer













Jonathan S. Halkyard







 







56







 







Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer













John M. McManus







 







53







 







Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary










 




Mr. Hornbuckle has served as Chief Executive Officer since July 2020 and as President since December 2012. He served as Acting Chief Executive Officer from March 2020 to July 2020, as Chief Operating Officer from March 2019 to March 2020, as President and Chief Customer Development Officer from December 2018 to February 2019, as Chief Marketing Officer from August 2009 to August 2014 and President and Chief Operating Officer of Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino from April 2005 to August 2009.




 




Mr. Sanders has served as Chief Operating Officer since December 2020. Previously, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from March 2019 to January 2021, as Chief Operating Officer from September 2010 through February 2019, as Chief Operating Officer for the Company’s Core Brand and Regional Properties from August 2009 to September 2010, as Executive Vice President—Operations from August 2007 to August 2009, and as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for MGM Grand Resorts from April 2005 to August 2007. 




 




Mr. Halkyard has served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since January 2021. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Halkyard served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Extended Stay America, Inc. and its paired-share REIT, ESH Hospitality, Inc., from January 2018 through November 2019, as Chief Financial Officer of Extended Stay from January 2015 through December 2017, and as Chief Operating Officer of Extended Stay from September 2013 through January 2015. Prior to joining Extended Stay, Mr. Halkyard served as Chief Financial Officer of NV Energy, Inc. from July 2012 through September 2013 and, prior to that, he served in various executive, finance and managerial roles at Caesars Entertainment Inc. since 1999, including as Chief Financial Officer from 2006 through 2012.




 




Mr. McManus has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since July 2010. He served as Acting General Counsel from December 2009 to July 2010, as a senior member of the Company’s Corporate Legal Department from July 2008 to December 2009, and he served as counsel to various MGM operating subsidiaries from May 2001 to July 2008. 




 




Available Information 




 




We maintain a website at 

www.mgmresorts.com

 that includes financial and other information for investors. We provide access to our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format), filed and furnished current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on our website, free of charge, through a link to the SEC’s EDGAR database. Through that link, our filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish the documents with the SEC. These filings are also available on the SEC’s website at 

www.sec.gov

. 




 




Because of the time differences between Macau and the United States, we also use our corporate website as a means of posting important information about MGM China. 




 




References in this document to our website address do not incorporate by reference the information contained on the websites into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 




13







 
















ITEM 1A.







RISK FACTORS




 




You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below.




 




Summary of Risk Factors




 




The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, operations and financial results.




 




Risks Relating to Our Substantial Indebtedness




 
















 







•







Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments and guarantees we provide on the indebtedness of the Bellagio BREIT Venture and the MGP BREIT Venture could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. 
















 







•







Current and future economic, capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments or make planned expenditures. 
















 







•







The agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. 
















 







•







We are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as rent, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth initiatives, service our indebtedness and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes. 




Risks Related to Our Business




 
















 







•







The global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to materially impact our business, financial results and liquidity, and such impact could worsen and last for an unknown period of time. 
















 







•







Although all of our properties are open to the public, they are operating without certain amenities and subject to certain occupancy limitations, and we are unable to predict the length of time it will take for our open properties to return to normal operations or if such properties will be required to close again due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
















 







•







We have undertaken aggressive actions to reduce costs and improve efficiencies to mitigate losses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could negatively impact guest loyalty and our ability to attract and retain employees. 
















 







•







We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, including increased competition through online sports betting and iGaming, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
















 







•







Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
















 







•







Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. 
















 







•







We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our cost savings initiatives, including those associated with our MGM 2020 Plan. 
















 







•







The anticipated benefits of our asset light strategy, including the Bellagio sale-leaseback transaction and MGP BREIT Venture Transaction, may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized at all.  
















 







•







Our ability to pay ongoing regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, existing and future debt agreements entered into by us or our subsidiaries and state law requirements. 
















 







•







Nearly all of our domestic gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with the lessor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. 
















 







•







Paul Salem, our Chairman, Daniel J. Taylor, one of our directors, and Corey Sanders, and John M. McManus, members of our senior management, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions at MGP. 
















 







•







Despite our ability to exercise control over the affairs of MGP as a result of our ownership of the single outstanding Class B share of MGP, MGP has adopted a policy under which certain transactions with us, including transactions 




14







 
















 










involving consideration in excess of $25 million, must be approved in accordance with certain specified procedures, which could affect our ability to execute our operational and strategic objectives. 
















 







•







We have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China. 
















 







•







The Macau government can terminate MGM Grand Paradise’s subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM Grand Paradise, exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession, or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2022, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
















 







•







MGM Grand Paradise is dependent upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in Macau. 
















 







•







The future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods. 
















 







•







We are subject to risks related to climate change. 
















 







•







Because a significant number of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. 
















 







•







We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables. 
















 







•







We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits. 
















 







•







Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or acts of war or hostility or the outbreak of infectious diseases. 
















 







•







Co-investing in our properties, including our investments in CityCenter and BetMGM, decreases our ability to manage risk. 
















 







•







Any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects.
















 







•







Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future. 
















 







•







Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business. 
















 







•







We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. 
















 







•







Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us. 
















 







•







We face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. 
















 







•







A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. 
















 







•







Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. 
















 







•







The failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and customer information could result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits and restrictions on our use of data. 
















 







•







We are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputation. 
















 







•







We may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful. 
















 







•







If the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, as well as other taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected. 
















 







•







Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM China, the holding company for MGM Grand Paradise which owns and operates MGM Macau and MGM Cotai. 




For a more complete discussion of the material risks facing our business, please see below.




 




15







 




Risks Relating to Our Substantial Indebtedness




 




Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments and guarantees we provide of the indebtedness of the Bellagio BREIT Venture and the MGP BREIT Venture could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations

. 

As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $12.5 billion of principal amount of indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis, including $4.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and $2.8 billion of outstanding indebtedness of MGM China. Any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. We do not guarantee MGM China’s or the Operating Partnership’s obligations under their respective debt agreements and, to the extent MGM China or the Operating Partnership were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service their indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into such entities is limited by the covenants in our existing senior credit facility.




 




In addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences on us, including:
















 







•







increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions;
















 







•







limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry;
















 







•







limiting 

our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy (including returning value to our shareholders) or other general operating requirements;
















 







•







making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or
















 







•







placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors.




 




We currently also provide shortfall guarantees of the $3.01 billion and $3.0 billion principal amount of indebtedness (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon) of the Bellagio BREIT Venture and MGP BREIT Venture, respectively. The terms of each guarantee provide that, after the lenders have exhausted certain remedies to collect on the obligations under the underlying indebtedness, we would then be responsible for any shortfall between the value of the collateral and the debt obligation, which amount may be material, and we may not have sufficient cash on hand to fund any such obligation to the extent it is triggered in the future. If we do not have sufficient cash on hand, we may need to raise capital, including incurring additional indebtedness, in order to satisfy our obligation. There can be no assurance that any financing will be available to us, or, if available, will be on terms that are satisfactory to us.




 




Moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. For our owned, leased and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. Our leases with MGP, the Bellagio BREIT Venture, and the MGP BREIT Venture have fixed rental payments (with annual escalators) and also require us to apply a percentage of net revenues generated at the leased properties to capital expenditures at those properties. Such investments require an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. Similarly, development projects, including any potential future development of an integrated resort in Japan, strategic initiatives, including positioning BetMGM as a leader in online sports betting and iGaming, and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.




 




Finally, our senior credit facility calculates interest on outstanding balances using the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (the "FCA") announced it would phase out LIBOR as a benchmark by the end of 2021. Although our senior credit facility includes LIBOR replacement provisions that contemplate an alternate benchmark rate to be mutually agreed upon by us and the administrative agent, if necessary, any such changes may result in interest obligations which are more than or do not otherwise correlate over time with the payments that would have been made if LIBOR was available in its current form. As a result, there can be no assurance that discontinuation of LIBOR will not result in significant increases in benchmark interest rates, substantially higher financing costs or a shortage of available debt financing, any of which could have an adverse effect on us.




 




Current and future economic, capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments or make planned expenditures

.

 Our ability to make payments on our substantial indebtedness and other significant financial commitments, including the rent payments under our leases, and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and other investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow, receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates (including CityCenter) and subsidiaries (including MGM China and the Operating Partnership), and borrow under our senior credit facility or incur new indebtedness. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in significant deterioration to regional, national and international economic conditions, which has resulted in substantial declines in our revenues from our operations and expected distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates and subsidiaries. We expect that the pandemic will continue to impact consumer spending levels in 2021 and potentially thereafter, and if we fail to generate cash sufficient to fund our liquidity 




16







 




needs or satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt and lease instruments

,

 

we cannot

 assure you that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs or that we will be able to access the capital markets in the future to borrow additional debt on terms favorable to us, or at all.




 




In addition, we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2022, and thereafter. Our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness will depend upon the economic and credit market conditions discussed above. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. There is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements or leases. 




 




The agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations

.

 Covenants governing our senior credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to:




 
















 







•







pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity, prepay certain debt or make certain investments;
















 







•







incur additional debt;
















 







•







incur liens on assets;
















 







•







sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets;
















 







•







enter into transactions with affiliates;
















 







•







allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets or enter into certain agreements; and
















 







•







enter into sale and lease-back transactions.




 




Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. In April of 2020 we entered into an amendment to our senior secured credit facility to waive the rent adjusted net leverage and interest coverage covenants through (but excluding) the second quarter of 2021 and adjust the required leverage and interest coverage levels for the covenant when it is reimposed at the end of the waiver period. In February 2021, we further amended the senior secured credit facility to extend the covenant relief period through (but excluding) the second quarter of 2022 and adjust the required leverage and interest coverage levels for the covenant when it is reimposed at the end of the waiver period. Any default under our senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt and other financial commitments.




 




In addition, each of MGM China and the Operating Partnership has issued debt securities and is a borrower under credit facilities, all of which contain covenants that restrict the respective borrower’s ability to engage in certain transactions, require them to satisfy certain financial covenants and impose certain operating and financial restrictions on them and their respective subsidiaries. These restrictions include, among other things, limitations on their ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. 




 




We are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as rent, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth initiatives, service our indebtedness and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes

.

 As of December 31, 2020 we are required to make annual rent payments of $828 million under the master lease with MGP, annual rent payments of $250 million under the lease with Bellagio BREIT Venture, and annual rent payments of $292 million under the lease with MGP BREIT Venture, which leases are also subject to annual escalators as described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The leases also require us to spend a certain amount on capital expenditures at the leased properties. In addition, the leases governing the Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, and Mandalay Bay properties require us to comply with certain financial covenants which, if not met, will require us to deposit cash collateral or issue letters of credit for the benefit of the applicable landlord equal to one year of rent under the MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay lease and two years of rent under the Bellagio lease. As a result of the foregoing rent and capital expenditure obligations, our ability to fund our operations, raise capital, make acquisitions, make investments, service our debt and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected. For example, our obligations under the leases may:
















 







•







make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to obtain additional indebtedness; 
















 







•







increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business;
















 







•







require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making rent payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, pay dividends, repurchase shares and other general corporate purposes;




17







 
















 







•







limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 
















 







•







restrict our ability to make acquisitions, divestitures and engage in other significant transactions; and
















 







•







cause us to lose our rights with respect to the applicable leased properties if we fail to pay rent or other amounts or otherwise default on the leases.




 




Any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.




 




Risks Related to our Business




 




The global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to materially impact our business, financial results and liquidity, and such impact could worsen and last for an unknown period of time.

 

The global spread of the COVID-19 pandemic has been, and continues to be, complex and rapidly evolving, with governments, public institutions and other organizations imposing or recommending, and businesses and individuals implementing, restrictions on various activities or other actions to combat its spread, such as restrictions and bans on travel or transportation, stay-at-home directives, limitations on the size of gatherings, closures of work facilities, schools, public buildings and businesses, cancellation of events, including sporting events, concerts, conferences and meetings, and quarantines and lock-downs.




 




The COVID-19 pandemic and its consequences have dramatically reduced travel and demand for hotel rooms and other casino resort amenities, which has had a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December  31, 2020 and which we expect to impact our consolidated results of operations during 2021 and potentially thereafter. In particular, although all of our properties are open to the public, they were all required to be fully closed for some periods of time during 2020 pursuant to various state and local government regulations, which had a negative impact on our results of operations during this period. In addition, in light of the recent significant increases in reported cases of COVID-19 across the country, as well as the emergence of variant strains, additional restrictions have been imposed in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including setting curfews and imposing restrictions on hotel and restaurant operations. In light of the continued impact of the pandemic on midweek visitation, the Company determined to temporarily close the hotel tower operations at Mandalay Bay and Park MGM midweek and determined to temporarily close The Mirage midweek, which are expected to resume full week operations on March 3, 2021. Further, our properties are continuing to operate without certain amenities and subject to certain occupancy limitations, and we are unable to predict the length of time it will take for our properties to return to normal operations or if our properties or portions of our properties will be required to close again due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the emergence of variant strains of the virus. See “—Although all of our properties have re-opened to the public, they are operating without certain amenities and subject to certain occupancy limitations, and we are unable to predict the length of time it will take for our properties to return to normal operations or if such properties will be required to close again due to the COVID-19 pandemic.”




Following a temporary closure of MGM China’s properties in Macau on February 5, 2020, operations resumed on February 20, 2020, subject to certain health safeguards, such as limiting the number of gaming tables allowed to operate and the number of seats available at each table game, slot machine spacing, reduced operating hours at a number of restaurants and bars, temperature checks, mask protection and the need to present negative COVID-19 test results and health declarations submitted through the Macau Health Code system which remain in effect.  Effective July 15, 2020, all guests entering our casinos were required to provide a negative nucleic acid test result with a valid ‘green’ Macau Health Code.  Although the issuance of tourist visas (including the IVS) for residents of Zhuhai, Guangdong Province and all other provinces in mainland China to travel to Macau resumed on August 12, 2020, August 26, 2020 and September 23, 2020, respectively, several travel and entry restrictions in Macau, Hong Kong and mainland China remain in place (including the temporary suspension of ferry services from Hong Kong to Macau, the nucleic acid test result certificate and mandatory quarantine requirements for visitors from Hong Kong and Taiwan, and bans on entry or enhanced quarantine requirements on other visitors into Macau). As a result of the foregoing, the COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant negative impact on MGM China’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 and will likely continue to negatively impact MGM China’s results of operations in 2021 given the uncertainty of the length of time of the pandemic, the emergence of variant strains of the virus and the continuation of operating restrictions and other limitations on visitation.




 




The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations, and financial results, including the duration and magnitude of such effects, will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict or assess, including the duration and scope of the pandemic (and whether there is a, or multiple, resurgences in the future); the availability of a vaccine and the efficacy of the vaccine against existing and new variants of the COVID-19 virus; the ability to effectively and efficiently distribute any vaccines domestically and internationally to allow travel to resume to pre-pandemic levels; the negative impact the pandemic has on global and regional economies and economic activity, including the duration and magnitude of its impact on unemployment rates and consumer discretionary spending; its short and longer-term impact on the demand for travel, transient and group business, and levels of consumer confidence even after travel advisories and restrictions are lifted; the ability of us and our business partners to successfully navigate the impacts of the pandemic; actions governments, businesses and individuals take 




18







 




in response to the pandemic

 (including the rise of variant strains of the virus)

,

 such as

 limiting or banning travel and limiting or banning leisure, casino and entertainment (including sporting events) activities; and how quickly economies, travel activity, and demand for gaming, entertainment and leisure activities recovers after the pandemic subsides. We may also face unforeseen liability or be subject to additional obligations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, including as a result of claims alleging exposure to COVID-19 in connection with our operations or facilities or to the extent we are subject to a governmental enforcement action as a result of health and safety compliance. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may also have the effect of exacerbating many of the other risks described in 

this section or in any other filings with the SEC

. As a result of the foregoing, we cannot predict the ultimate scope, duration and impact the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our results of operations, but it will continue to have a material impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) and stock price.




 




In addition, while we expect to benefit from certain payroll tax and income tax relief provided under the CARES Act, we have not applied for any of the other available benefits, although we may do so in the future to the extent such benefits remain available or new benefits become available. If we were to apply for such benefits, we cannot predict the manner in which such benefits would be allocated or administered and we cannot assure you that we will be able to access such benefits in a timely manner or at all. Certain of the benefits we may seek to access under the CARES Act have not previously been administered on the present scale or at all. Government or third party program administrators may be unable to cope with the volume of applications in the near term and any benefits we receive may not be as extensive as those for which we may apply, may impose additional conditions and restrictions on our operations or may otherwise provide less relief than we contemplate. If the U.S. government or any other governmental authority agrees to provide crisis relief assistance that we accept, it may impose certain requirements on the recipients of the aid, including restrictions on executive officer compensation, dividends, prepayment of debt, limitations on debt and other similar restrictions that will apply for a period of time after the aid is repaid or redeemed in full. We cannot assure you that any such government crisis relief assistance will not significantly limit our corporate activities or be on terms that are favorable to us. Such restrictions and terms could adversely impact our business and operations.




 




Although all of our properties are open to the public, they are operating without certain amenities and subject to certain occupancy limitations, and we are unable to predict the length of time it will take for our properties to return to normal operations or if such properties will be required to close again due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 As of the date of this filing, all of our properties are open or expected to be open to the public, but are operating without certain amenities and subject to certain occupancy limitations, including midweek hotel tower closures at Mandalay Bay and Park MGM and the full midweek closure of The Mirage, which are expected to resume full week operations on March 3, 2021. Accordingly, although our properties are open, they are generating revenues that are significantly lower than historical results. In addition, our properties may be subject to temporary, complete or partial shutdowns in the future due to COVID-19 related concerns. We have also implemented certain measures to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including limits on the number of gaming tables allowed to operate and on the number of seats at each table game, as well as slot machine spacing, temperature checks, mask protection, limitations on restaurant capacity, entertainment events and conventions and other measures to enforce social distancing. While we engaged in aggressive cost reduction efforts to minimize cash outflows while our properties were closed, and have continued to engage in such efforts as our properties have re-opened, we still have significant fixed and variable expenses, which will adversely affect our profitability. In addition, we have seen, and continue to expect to see, weakened demand at our properties as a result of continued domestic and international travel restrictions or warnings, restrictions on amenity use, such as gaming, restaurant and pool capacity limitations, consumer fears and reduced consumer discretionary spending, general economic uncertainty and increased rates of unemployment. We also lease certain of our outlets to third parties that have been negatively impacted by the pandemic and there can be no assurance that these third parties will be able to pay rent or other obligations owed to us or continue to operate at our properties when we return to normalized operations. If we provide financial relief to existing tenants to assist them with continuing operations, fail to relet these properties, or if we are able to relet these properties on terms which are not as favorable to us as in our previous leases, our results of operations may be negatively impacted.

 

In light of the foregoing, we are unable to determine when our properties will return to pre-pandemic demand or pricing, but the impact had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations during 2020 and we expect that it will continue to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations during 2021 and potentially thereafter.




 




We have undertaken aggressive actions to reduce costs and improve efficiencies to mitigate losses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could negatively impact guest loyalty and our ability to attract and retain employees.

 As a result of the temporary closures of all of our domestic properties, the continued limitations on amenities offered at the properties and the continued uncertainty regarding the duration and severity of this pandemic, we have taken steps to reduce operating costs and improve efficiencies, including substantial furloughs (which have resulted in a number of employees being separated from the Company) and headcount reductions. Such steps, and further changes we may make in the future to reduce costs, may negatively impact guest loyalty or our ability to attract and retain employees, and our reputation may suffer as a result. We may also face demands or requests from labor unions that represent our employees, whether in the course of our periodic renegotiation of our collective bargaining agreements, through effects bargaining relating to the shut down and/or reopening of our operations, or otherwise, for additional compensation, healthcare benefits or other terms as a result of COVID-19 that could increase costs, and we could experience labor disputes or disruptions as we continue to implement our COVID-19 mitigation plans.




19







 




 




We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, including increased competition through online sports betting and iGaming, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows

.

 The hotel, resort, entertainment, and casino industries are highly competitive. We do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort, entertainment, and gaming operations in other states or countries, as well as the increased availability of online sports betting and iGaming, could attract our customers. To the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. Major competitors, including potential new entrants, may also expand their hotel room capacity, expand their range of amenities, improve their level of service, or construct new resorts in Las Vegas, Macau or in the domestic regional markets in which we operate, all of which could attract our customers. Also, the growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas and elsewhere. For instance, recently local referendums were passed to allow gaming in Virginia and Nebraska, with active lobbying occurring in additional states. While we believe our principal competitors are major gaming and hospitality resorts with well-established and recognized brands, we also compete against smaller hotel offerings and peer-to-peer inventory sources, which allow travelers to book short-term rentals of homes and apartments from owners. We expect that we will continue to face increased competition from new channels of distribution, innovations in consumer-facing technology platforms and other transformations in the travel industry that could impact our ability to attract and retain customers and related business. 




 




We have also seen significant expansion across the United States in legalized forms of iGaming and online sports betting and expect additional jurisdictions will likely legalize iGaming and online sports betting in the future. We participate in the domestic iGaming and online sports betting market through our joint venture, BetMGM which faces significant competition from other industry participants as well as the broader gaming and entertainment industries. If BetMGM is unable to sustain or grow interest in its offerings it may not be able to gain the scale necessary to successfully compete in the growing market and, as a result, we may not receive the anticipated benefits from our investment. In addition, the expansion of iGaming, online sports betting, and other types of gaming may further compete with our land-based operations by reducing customer visitation and spend at our properties.




 




In addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the United States and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos. For example, while our Macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near Asia, certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including Japan) and others (such as Taiwan and Thailand) may legalize casino gaming (or iGaming) in the future. Furthermore, currently MGM Grand Paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the Macau government to operate casinos in Macau. If the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaires open additional facilities, we would face increased competition.  




 




Most jurisdictions where casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. Although a number of jurisdictions in the United States and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. 




 




In addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.




 




Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations

. 

Our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, our iGaming and online sports betting initiatives may be particularly subject to risks related to potential changes in the regulatory environment as a result of the continued development of regulations in this industry. For example, in 2018, the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) reversed its previously-issued opinion published in 2011, which stated that interstate transmissions of wire communications that do not relate to a “sporting event or contest” fall outside the purview of the Wire Act of 1961 (“Wire Act”). The DOJ’s updated opinion concluded instead that the Wire Act was not uniformly limited to gaming relating to sporting events or contests and that certain of its provisions apply to non-sports-related wagering activity. In June 2019, a federal district court in New Hampshire ruled that the DOJ’s new interpretation of the Wire Act was erroneous and vacated DOJ’s new 




20







 




opinion. DOJ has appealed the decision of the district court to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. An adverse ruling in the Court of Appeals or other disposition of the case may impact our ability to engage in 

iG

aming in the future. 

For a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see “Regulation and Licensing” and Exhibit 99.

1

 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K

.




 




Further, our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our properties must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. If state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the property. State regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. Certain public and private issuances of securities, borrowings under credit agreements, guarantees of indebtedness and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities.




 




Macau laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from MGM China’s interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, MGM China’s activities in Macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that MGM China will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. Macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues.




 




In addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. For instance, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Energy Policy Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, Renewable Portfolio Standards, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, and many others. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. In addition, effective January 1, 2019, smoking in casinos in Macau, including MGM Macau and MGM Cotai, is only permitted inside specially ventilated smoking rooms, rather than outside smoking areas or VIP areas. The likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance.




 




We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations as required by various anti-money laundering laws and regulations. For instance, we are subject to regulation under the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, commonly known as the “Bank Secrecy Act”, which, among other things, requires us to report to the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) any currency transactions in excess of $10,000 that occur within a 24-hour gaming day, including identification of the individual(s) involved in the currency transaction. We are also required to report certain suspicious activity where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect transactions, among other things, involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to evade federal regulations or avoid reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. In addition, under the Bank Secrecy Act we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. Our compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act is subject to periodic examinations by the IRS. Any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Any violations of the anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.




 




Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in governments, public institutions and other organizations imposing or recommending restrictions on various activities or other actions to combat its spread. See “—The global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to materially impact our business, financial results and liquidity, and such impact could worsen and last for an unknown period of time.” In addition to the pandemic-related restrictions that resulted in the temporary closures of our properties during 2020, governmental or other COVID-19-related restrictions may be extended, or new restrictions may be imposed in the future.




 




Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside

.

 Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions, trade shows and business development. Economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. In addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, outbreaks of contagious diseases or fears of war and acts of terrorism or other acts of violence. Consumer preferences also evolve over time due to a variety of factors, including demographic changes, which, for instance, have resulted in recent growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the 




21







 




preferences of consumers and timely react to these trends, and any failure to do so may negatively impact our results of operations. 

In particular, 

Aria, Bellagio and MGM Grand Las Vegas may be affected by economic conditions in the Far East, and all of our Nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the United States, and California in particular. A recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results.




 




For example, i

n March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic as a result of its spread, and governmental authorities around the world implemented measures to reduce the spread of the outbreak, including the temporary suspension of gaming operations in Macau in February 2020, and the temporary closures of all of our domestic properties at times during 2020. As of the date hereof, while all of our properties are open to the public, they are operating without all amenities and subject to certain occupancy limitations, and accordingly, continue to generate revenues that are significantly lower than historical results. The full extent to which COVID-19 impacts our results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. See “—The global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to materially impact our business, financial results and liquidity, and such impact could worsen and last for an unknown period of time.”




 




In addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to MGM Macau and MGM Cotai (and, to a lesser extent, our domestic properties) from mainland China, general economic, regulatory and market conditions in China could impact our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or changes to China’s current restrictions on travel and currency conversion or movements, including continued market impacts of the COVID-19 outbreak and market impacts resulting from China’s recent anti-corruption campaign and related tightening of liquidity provided by non-bank lending entities and cross-border currency monitoring (including increased restrictions on Union Pay withdrawals and other ATM limits on the withdrawal of patacas imposed by the government), could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China and/or the amounts they are willing to spend at our properties. Most recently, in July 2017, the Chinese government, along with Macau authorities, implemented new facial recognition technology on ATM machines in Macau to strictly enforce the “know you

r

 customer” regulations for mainland Chinese bank cardholders and in November 2017 new rules were adopted to control the cross-border transportation of cash and bearer negotiable instruments. It is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, become more restrictive, or be readopted in the future. These developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to Macau from mainland China, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in Macau.




Furthermore, our operations in Macau may be impacted by competition for limited labor resources and our ability to retain and hire employees. We compete with a large number of casino resorts for a limited number of employees and we anticipate that such competition will grow in light of the opening of new developments in Macau. While we seek employees from outside of Macau to adequately staff our resorts, certain Macau government policies limit our ability to import labor in certain job classifications (for instance, the Macau government requires that we only hire Macau residents as dealers in our casinos) and any future government policies that freeze or cancel our ability to import labor could cause labor costs to increase (including limitations on our ability to import labor as a result of temporary travel restrictions adopted as part of the COVID-19 mitigation efforts). Finally, because additional casino projects have commenced operations and other projects are under construction, the existing transportation infrastructure may need to be expanded to accommodate increased visitation to Macau. If transportation facilities to and from Macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting Macau, the desirability of Macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations at our developments in Macau, could be negatively impacted.




 




We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our cost savings initiatives, including those associated with our MGM 2020 Plan. 

As part of our MGM 2020 Plan, we undertook several initiatives to reduce costs and further position us for growth by the end of 2020. In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented several additional cost savings initiatives in 2020 to improve our operating model. However, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully implement these cost savings initiatives in the time frames contemplated or at all, that we will ultimately be able to realize the expected benefits of these or any other cost savings initiatives, or that any new additional costs or increases in existing expenses will not offset any cost savings. If we fail to achieve the anticipated benefits of any current or future cost savings initiatives, our profitability and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business continues to evolve, we may need to adjust or expand our cost savings initiatives, which could have the effect of exacerbating the risks described above.




 




The anticipated benefits of our asset light strategy, including the Bellagio sale-leaseback transaction and MGP BREIT Venture Transaction, may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized at all.

  

Our current growth strategy is to pursue and execute on an asset-light business model, which involves a comprehensive review of our owned real estate assets to determine whether those assets can be monetized efficiently to allow unlocked capital to be redeployed towards balance sheet improvements, new growth opportunities and to return value to our shareholders. Our ability to execute on this strategy will depend on our ability to identify accretive transactions that optimize the value of our remaining assets. There can be no assurances, however, that we will be able to monetize our remaining real property assets on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that any anticipated benefits from any such potential transactions will be realized.




22







 




 




Our ability to pay ongoing regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, existing and future debt agreements entered into by us or our subsidiaries and state law requirements.

 

As part of our cost savings initiatives during the pandemic, we significantly reduced our historic dividend rate. Although we intend to pay ongoing regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock; our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by certain covenants in our credit agreement, and because we are a holding company with no material direct operations, we are dependent on receiving cash from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds from operations necessary to pay dividends on our common stock. Our subsidiaries ability to generate the cash flow necessary to maintain quarterly dividend payments on our common stock is be subject to their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, which has been significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to us is subject to any applicable provisions of state law that may limit the amount of funds available to us, and compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future agreements governing any indebtedness at such subsidiaries and any limitations in other agreements such subsidiaries may have with third parties. In addition, each of the companies in our corporate chain must manage its assets, liabilities and working capital in order to meet all of their respective cash obligations. As a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, future dividend payments may be further reduced or eliminated in their entirety. Any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.




 




Nearly all of our domestic gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with the lessor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.

 Nearly all of our properties are subject to triple-net leases that, in addition to rent, require us to pay: (1) all facility maintenance, (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties, (3) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor), (4) all capital expenditures, and (5) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties. We are responsible for paying these expenses notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits received in exchange for such costs shall accrue in part to the landlords as the owners of the associated facilities. 

Furthermore, our obligation to pay rent as well as the other costs described above is absolute in virtually all circumstances, regardless of the performance of the properties and other circumstances that might abate rent in leases that now place these risks on the tenant, such as certain events of casualty and condemnation.




 




In addition, under the master lease with MGP, if some of our facilities should prove to be unprofitable or experience other issues that would warrant ceasing operations, or if we should otherwise decide to exit a particular property, we would remain obligated for lease payments and other obligations even if we decided to cease operations at those locations unless we are able to transfer the rights with respect to a particular property in accordance with the requirements of the MGP master lease. Furthermore, our ability to transfer our obligations under the MGP master lease to a third-party with respect to individual properties, should we decide to withdraw from a particular location, is limited to non-Las Vegas properties and no more than two Las Vegas gaming properties, and is subject to identifying a willing third-party who meets the requirements for a transferee set forth in the MGP master lease, which we may be unable to find. In addition, we could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facilities including sublease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 




 




Paul Salem, our Chairman, Daniel J. Taylor, one of our directors, and Corey Sanders, and John M. McManus, members of our senior management, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions at MGP

. 

Paul Salem serves as our Chairman and as the Chairman of MGP. In addition, Daniel J. Taylor, one of our directors, is also a director of MGP, and Corey Sanders and John M. McManus, members of our senior management, are also directors of MGP. While we have procedures in place to address such situations and the organizational documents with respect to MGP contain provisions that reduce or eliminate duties (including fiduciary duties) to any MGP shareholder to the fullest extent permitted by law, these overlapping positions could nonetheless create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our or MGP’s management and directors pursue the same corporate opportunities, such as potential acquisition targets, or face decisions that could have different implications for us and MGP. Further, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and MGP (or its subsidiaries) regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship, between us and MGP, such as under the master lease. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and MGP enter into any commercial or other adverse arrangements with each other in the future.




 




Despite our ability to exercise control over the affairs of MGP as a result of our ownership of the single outstanding Class B share of MGP, MGP has adopted a policy under which certain transactions with us, including transactions involving consideration in excess of $25 million, must be approved in accordance with certain specified procedures, which could affect our ability to execute our operational and strategic objectives.

 

We own the single outstanding Class B share of MGP. The Class B Share is a non-economic interest in MGP which does not provide its holder any rights to profits or losses or any rights to receive distributions from 




23







 




operations of MGP or upon liquidation or winding up of MGP, and which represents a majority of the voting power of MGP’s shares so long as the holder of the Class B share and its controlled affiliates’ (excluding MGP) aggregate beneficial ownership of the combined economic interests in MGP and the Operating Partnership does not fall below 30%. We, therefore, have the ability to exercise significant control 

over MGP’s affairs, including control over the outcome of all matters submitted to MGP’s shareholders for approval.

 

MGP’s operating agreement, however, provides that whenever a potential conflict of interest exists or arises between us or any of our affiliates (other than MGP and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and MGP or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand, any resolution or course of action by MGP’s board of directors in respect of such conflict of interest shall be conclusively deemed to be fair and reasonable to MGP if it is (i) approved by a majority of a conflicts committee which consists solely of “independent” directors (which MGP refers to as “Special Approval”) (such independence determined in accordance with the NYSE’s listing standards, the standards established by the Exchange Act to serve on an audit committee of a board of directors and certain additional independence requirements in our operating agreement), (ii) determined by MGP’s board of directors to be fair and reasonable to MGP or (iii) approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of MGP’s outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). Furthermore, MGP’s operating agreement provides that any transaction with a value, individually or in the aggregate, over $25 million between us or any of our affiliates (other than MGP and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and MGP or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand (any such transaction (other than the exercise of rights by us or any of our affiliates (other than MGP and its subsidiaries) under any of the material agreements entered into on the closing day of MGP’s formation transactions), a “Threshold Transaction”), shall be permitted only if (i) Special Approval is obtained or (ii) such transaction is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of MGP’s outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates).

 

As a result, certain transactions, including

 

any Threshold Transactions that we may want to pursue with MGP and that could have significant benefit to us may require Special Approval. There can be no assurance that the required approval will be obtained with respect to these transactions either from

 

a conflicts committee comprised of independent MGP directors or the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares not held by us and our affiliates. The failure to obtain such requisite consent could materially affect our ability and the cost to execute our

 

operational and strategic objectives.




 




We have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China

.

 As a result of the extension of the Macau gaming subconcession, we entered into a First Renewed Deed of Non-Compete Undertakings with MGM China and Ms. Ho, Pansy Catilina Chiu King (“Ms. Ho”), pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the People’s Republic of China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China. While gaming is currently prohibited in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) the date MGM China’s ordinary shares cease to be listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited or (ii) the date when our ownership of MGM China shares is less than 20% of the then-issued share capital of MGM China.




 




The Macau government can terminate MGM Grand Paradise’s subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM Grand Paradise

,

 exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession, or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2022

,

 any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business

,

 financial condition

,

 results of operations and cash flows

.

 The Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by MGM Grand Paradise with applicable Macau laws or MGM Grand Paradise’s basic obligations under the subconcession contract. MGM Grand Paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the Macau government. Upon such termination, all of MGM Grand Paradise’s casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the Macau government without compensation to MGM Grand Paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the Macau government.




 




Furthermore, under the subconcession contract, MGM Grand Paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the Macau government might promulgate in the future. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our Macau businesses. If any disagreement arises between MGM Grand Paradise and the Macau government regarding the interpretation of, or MGM Grand Paradise’s compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, MGM Grand Paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the Macau government. During any consultation or negotiation, MGM Grand Paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the Macau government. Currently, there is no precedent concerning how the Macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. The loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in Macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.




 




In addition, the subconcession contract expires on June 26, 2022. Unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of MGM Grand Paradise’s casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the Macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. Beginning on April 20, 2017, the Macau government may redeem the subconcession contract 




24







 




by providing us at least one year’s prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, MGM Grand Paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by MGM Grand Paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to MGM Grand Paradise or at all. We also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to MGM Grand Paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues.




 




MGM Grand Paradise is dependent upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in Macau

.

 Gaming promoters, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of MGM Grand Paradise’s gaming revenues in Macau. With the rise in gaming in Macau and the recent reduction in the number of licensed gaming promoters in Macau and in the number of VIP rooms operated by licensed gaming promoters, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. While MGM Grand Paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with gaming promoters, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with gaming promoters. In addition, continued reductions in, and new regulations governing, the gaming promoter segment may result in the closure of additional VIP rooms in Macau, including VIP rooms at MGM Macau and MGM Cotai. If MGM Grand Paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with gaming promoters, or if gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers (or if, as a result of recent market conditions in Macau, gaming promoters encounter difficulties attracting patrons to come to Macau or experience decreased liquidity limiting their ability to grant credit to patrons), MGM Grand Paradise’s ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. Furthermore, if existing VIP rooms at MGM Macau and MGM Cotai are closed there can be no assurance that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to locate acceptable gaming promoters to run such VIP rooms in the future in a timely manner, or at all.




 




In addition, the quality of gaming promoters is important to MGM Grand Paradise’s and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. While MGM Grand Paradise strives for excellence in associations with gaming promoters, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom MGM Grand Paradise is or becomes associated will meet the high standards insisted upon. If a gaming promoter falls below MGM Grand Paradise’s standards, MGM Grand Paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations.




 




We also grant credit lines to certain gaming promoters and any adverse change in the financial performance of those gaming promoters may impact the recoverability of these loans.




 




The future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods.

 

We currently have significant deferred tax assets resulting from foreign tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce taxes attributable to potential taxable foreign-sourced income in future periods, including the recapture of overall domestic losses to the extent of U.S. taxable income. We evaluate our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset for recoverability and record a valuation allowance to the extent that we determine it is not more likely than not such asset will be recovered. This evaluation is based on all available evidence, including assumptions concerning future U.S. operating profits and foreign source income. As a result, significant judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a valuation allowance and changes to our assumptions could result in a material change in the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact on the provision for income taxes in the period including such change.




 




We are subject to risks related to climate change. 

Extreme weather conditions, potentially exacerbated by climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. Certain of our properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, floods, tornados and winter storms in the United States and severe typhoons in Macau. Such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations or the operations of critical suppliers, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. In addition, our operations or the operations of critical suppliers could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage. A severe drought of extensive duration experienced in Las Vegas or in the other regions in which we operate or source critical supplies could adversely affect our business. Although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may result in reduced availability or increased price volatility of certain critical supplies, may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties, and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period.




 




Because a significant number of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified

.

 Given that a significant number of our major resorts are 




25







 




concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the Las Vegas tourism industry. For example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from Las Vegas can adversely affect our business. We cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from Las Vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. Reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand

, as a result of limitations on travel imposed to address the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise,

 can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and Southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities.




 




We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables

.

 We conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. Table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. Furthermore, the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these high-end customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. In addition, MGM Grand Paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. Uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations.




 




While gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from United States courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations.




 




Furthermore, we expect that MGM China will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent MGM China gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, MGM China may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and MGM China may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Moreover, under applicable law, MGM China remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers.




 




Even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results.




 




We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits

.

 We review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. Significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges or write-downs may be required in future periods. If we are required to record additional impairment charges or write-downs, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations.




 




Leisure and business travel

,

 especially travel by air

,

 are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events

,

 such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or acts of war or hostility or the outbreak of infectious diseases

. 

We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. Since most of our customers travel by air to our Las Vegas and Macau properties, any terrorist act or other acts of violence, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the outbreak of infectious diseases, such as COVID-19, has severely disrupted, and is expected to continue to disrupt, domestic and international travel. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in governments, public institutions and other organizations imposing or recommending, and businesses and individuals implementing, restrictions on various activities or other actions to combat its spread, such as restrictions and bans on travel or transportation, stay-at-home directives, limitations on the size of gatherings, closures of work facilities, schools, public buildings and businesses, cancellation of events,

 

including sporting events, concerts, conferences and meetings, and quarantines and lock-downs. Although all of our properties are open to the public, we are still subject to capacity limitations on the size of gatherings in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, which has had a significant impact on the willingness of our customers to come to our properties for conventions. Even when those restrictions are removed, consumer willingness to attend large scale conferences may be impacted for the foreseeable future due to continued concerns over safety and social distancing. See “—The global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to materially impact our business, financial results and liquidity, and such impact could worsen and last for an unknown period of time.” 




26







 




 




Furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable.




 




Co-investing in our properties, including our investments in CityCenter and BetMGM, decreases our ability to manage risk

. 

In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, in properties or businesses as a co-investor. Co-investors often have shared control over the operation of the property or business. Therefore, the operation of such properties or businesses is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. In addition, investments with other investors may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-investor might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-investor might subject the properties or businesses owned by such entities to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our co-investors, or our co-investors could take actions binding on the property without our consent. Additionally, should a co-investor become bankrupt, we could become liable for its share of liabilities.




 




For instance, CityCenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. If CityCenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our co-investor are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. In addition, the agreements governing CityCenter’s indebtedness subject CityCenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. The CityCenter credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require CityCenter to maintain a maximum total net leverage ratio (as defined in CityCenter’s credit facility) for each quarter, which covenants are subject to a waiver through the maturity date of its revolving credit facility in April 2022. We cannot be sure that CityCenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test.




 




In addition, we share control of BetMGM with Entain with all 

major operating, investing and financial activities requiring the consent of both members. Disagreements between us and Entain could arise in the future, including with respect to the amount and timing of capital contributions. If we and Entain are unable to support the future funding of BetMGM, then BetMGM may not have the resources to execute on the development or implementation of its strategies, including funding efforts to increase its market share, which could 

result in us not receiving the anticipated benefits from our investment.

  




 




Any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects

.




 




Any of our future construction, development or expansion projects, such as our proposed integrated resort in Japan, will be subject to a number of risks, including:




 
















 







•







lack of sufficient, or delays in the availability of, financing;
















 







•







changes to plans and specifications;
















 







•







engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications;
















 







•







shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets;
















 







•







delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals;
















 







•







changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects;
















 







•







labor disputes or work stoppages;
















 







•







availability of qualified contractors and subcontractors;
















 







•







disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors;
















 







•







personal injuries to workers and other persons;
















 







•







environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses;
















 







•







weather interferences or delays;
















 







•







fires, typhoons and other natural disasters;
















 







•







geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and
















 







•







other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases.




 




27







 




The occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development, expansion or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future projects which we might undertake. In addition, the regulatory approvals associated with our development projects may require us to open future casino resorts by a certain specified time and to the extent we are unable to meet those deadlines, and any such deadlines are not extended, we may lose our regulatory approval to open a casino resort in a proposed jurisdiction, or incur payment penalties in connection with any delays which could have an adverse effect on our 

business, financial condition, 

results of operations

 and cash flows

. 




 




We also make significant capital expenditures to maintain and upgrade our resorts, which may disrupt operations and displace revenue at the properties, including revenue lost while rooms, restaurants and meeting spaces are under renovation and out of service. 




 




Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future

.

 Although we have “all risk” property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism or other acts of violence), each policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism or other acts of violence, loss of electrical power due to catastrophic events, rolling blackouts or otherwise, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage, and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses.




 




In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. Furthermore, the leases we entered into in connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction and the Bellagio sale-leaseback transaction require us to maintain specified insurance coverage. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain the types and limits of insurance coverage required by these leases and, to the extent such required insurance coverage cannot be obtained at commercially reasonable cost or at all, then we would need to obtain amendments to the leases or face a default by the applicable tenant under the lease, which could have material adverse effect on our business.




 




We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage.




 




Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business

.

 The development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. While our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. We file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the United States and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business.




 




28







 




We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States

.

 

Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-United States laws, regulations and customs. In particular, the risks associated with the operation of MGM China or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include:




 
















 







•







changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in Macau or other foreign jurisdictions;
















 







•







changes in non-United States government programs;
















 







•







possible failure by our employees or agents to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions;
















 







•







general economic conditions and policies in China, including restrictions on travel and currency movements;
















 







•







difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-United States operations;
















 







•







different labor regulations;
















 







•







changes in environmental, health and safety laws;
















 







•







outbreaks of diseases or epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic; 
















 







•







potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;
















 







•







political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts;
















 







•







economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and
















 







•







uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures.




 




These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If the United States dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our United States dollar reported income from sources where revenue is denominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease.




 




Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us

. 

A significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the United States, which exposes us to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. We are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. Violations of these laws by us or our non-controlled ventures may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties against us, and the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice continue to vigorously pursue enforcement of the FCPA. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations.




 




We face risks related to pending claims that have been

,

 or future claims that may be

,

 brought against us

. 

Claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. We may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Please see the further discussion in “Legal Proceedings” and Note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.




 




A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. 

Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 24,000 (excluding approximately 10,000 furloughed employees) of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A prolonged dispute with the covered employees or any labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or others could have an adverse impact on our operations, and adverse publicity in the marketplace related to union messaging could further harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. Also, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent that our non-union employees seek union representation or elect union representation, we would have exposure to risks associated with representation proceedings, labor negotiations and/or economic impacts of newly negotiated labor agreements. Furthermore, we may have, or acquire in the future, multi-employer plans that are classified as “endangered,” “seriously endangered,” or “critical” status. For instance, Borgata’s most significant plan is the Legacy Plan of the UNITE HERE Retirement Fund, which has been listed in “critical status” and is subject to a rehabilitation plan. Plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. In addition, while Borgata has no current intention to withdraw from these plans, a withdrawal in the future could result in the incurrence of a contingent liability that would be payable in 




29







 




an amount and at such time (or over a period of time) that would vary based on a number of factors at the time of (and after) withdrawal. Any such additional costs may be significant.




 




Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results

.

 We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues.




 




The failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and customer information could result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits and restrictions on our use of data.

 

We collect and process information relating to our employees, guests, and others for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted by the various states, the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy laws and regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent (or conflict) between jurisdictions. Various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact or adopt new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data retention, data transfer, and data protection. For example, the European Union has adopted a data protection regulation known as the General Data Protection Regulation, which became fully enforceable in May 2018, that includes operational and compliance requirements with significant penalties for non-compliance. In addition, California has enacted a new privacy law, known as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which went into effect on January 1, 2020 and provides some of the strongest privacy requirements in the United States.




 




Compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us), including accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, and tools to provide security for processing of customer and employee information, such as payment card and other confidential or proprietary information. Our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly; however, they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats including, but not limited to, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks by third parties. In addition, while we maintain cyber risk insurance to assist in the cost of recovery from a significant cyber event, such coverage may not be sufficient

.




 




We also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. Disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, through cyber-attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. For instance, there has been an increase in criminal cyber security attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed. Our information systems and data, including those we maintain with our third-party service providers, have been subject to cyber security breaches in the past and may be subject to cyber security breaches in the future. In addition, our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties’ information security operations. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.




 




We are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputation. 

Many factors influence our reputation and the value of our brands including the perception held by our customers, business partners, other key stakeholders and the communities in which we do business. Our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance factors and risk of damage to our reputation and the value of our brands if we fail to act responsibly in a number of areas including diversity and inclusion, community engagement and philanthropy, environmental sustainability, climate change, responsible gaming, supply chain management, workplace conduct, human rights and many others, some of which may be unforeseen. Any harm to our reputation could impact employee engagement and retention and the willingness of customers and our partners to do business with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.




 




30







 




We may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful

. 

We intend to consider strategic and complementary acquisitions and investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. Furthermore, we may pursue any of these opportunities in alliance with third parties, including MGP. Acquisitions and investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to:




 
















 







•







spending cash and incurring debt;
















 







•







assuming contingent liabilities;
















 







•







unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; 
















 







•







unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods;
















 







•







retaining key employees; and
















 







•







consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. 




 




We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, even if we are able to identify any such opportunities and complete transactions, we cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated synergies and benefits of our acquisitions or that they will be accretive to our results of operations. Our estimates and assumptions regarding expected synergies and benefits of our acquisitions could materially change, including as a result of factors beyond our control, and could delay, decrease or eliminate the expected accretive effect of the acquisitions. In addition, even if we are able to successfully integrate new assets and businesses, the integration of such assets and businesses may result in unanticipated costs, competitive responses, loss or customer or other business relationships and the diversion of management attention, and the expansion of our operations in general, whether through acquisition, development or internal growth, could also cause us to incur substantial costs, including legal, professional and consulting fees. 




 




In addition, we periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non-core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets or could be sold at significant premiums. From time to time, we may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all.




 




If the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, as well as other taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected

.

 

State and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees, including taxes and fees on gaming activities. From time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. Periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. If the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase taxes, including gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 




 




Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM China

,

 the holding company for MGM Grand Paradise which owns and operates MGM Macau and MGM Cotai

. 

As a result of the initial public offering of shares of MGM China common stock in 2011, MGM China has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of MGM China may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of MGM China. Decisions that could have different implications for us and MGM China, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with MGM China, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest.




 
















ITEM 1B.  







UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 




 




None. 




31







 




ITEM 2.

P

ROPERTIES 




 




The location and general characteristics of our properties are provided in Part I, Item 1. Business. As detailed in the aforementioned section, the majority of our facilities are subject to leases of the underlying real estate assets, which among other things, includes the land underlying the facility and the buildings used in the operations. 




The following table lists certain of our land holdings as of December 31, 2020. 




 
















 







 







Approximate













Name and Location







 







Acres













Las Vegas Strip Resorts







 







 













Bellagio

(1)







 







75













MGM Grand Las Vegas

(4)







 







102













Mandalay Bay

(4)







 







124













The Mirage

(2)







 







77













Luxor

(2)(5)







 







73













Excalibur

(2)







 







51













New York-New York

(2)(6)







 







23













Park MGM

(2)







 







21













Regional Operations







 







 













MGM Grand Detroit (Detroit, Michigan)

(2)







 







27













Beau Rivage (Biloxi, Mississippi)

(2)(7)







 







42













Gold Strike (Tunica, Mississippi)

(2)







 







24













MGM National Harbor (Prince George's County, Maryland)

(2)(8)







 







23













Borgata (Atlantic City, New Jersey)

(2)(9)







 







46













MGM Springfield (Springfield, Massachusetts)







 







14













MGM Northfield Park (Northfield, Ohio)

(2)







 







113













Empire City (Yonkers, New York)

(2)(10)







 







97













MGM China







 







 













MGM Macau

(3)







 







10













MGM Cotai

(3)







 







18










 
















(1)







Subject to a lease agreement between a subsidiary of ours and the Bellagio BREIT Venture, in which the land and the real estate assets are owned and leased from the Bellagio BREIT Venture.  
















(2)







Subject to a master lease agreement between a subsidiary of ours and a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, in which the land and the real estate assets are leased from a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership.
















(3)







Subject to separate land concession agreements with the Macau government.
















(4)







Subject to a master lease agreement between a subsidiary of ours and MGP BREIT Venture, in which the land and the real estate assets are leased from MGP BREIT Venture.
















(5) 







Includes 15 acres of land located across the Las Vegas Strip from Luxor.
















(6)







Includes 3 acres of land related to The Park entertainment district development located between Park MGM and New York-New York.
















(7)







10 acres are subject to a tidelands lease.
















(8)







All 23 acres are subject to a ground lease.
















(9)







11 acres are subject to ground leases.
















(10)







Includes 57 acres of land adjacent to the property.




 




The land and substantially all of the assets of MGP’s properties, indicated within the table above, other than MGM National Harbor and Empire City, secure the obligations under the Operating Partnership’s credit agreement. These borrowings are non-recourse to us.

 




 




Other than as described above, none of our properties are subject to any major encumbrance.







32







 
















ITEM 3.







LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 




 




See discussion of legal proceedings in Note 12 – 

Commitments and Contingencies 

in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.




 
















ITEM 4.







MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 




 




Not applicable. 




 




33







 




PART II 




 
















ITEM 5.







MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 




 




Common Stock Information 




 




Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “MGM.” 




 




There were approximately 3,446 record holders of our common stock as of February 23, 2021. 




 




Dividend Policy 




 




The Company implemented a dividend program in February 2017 pursuant to which it has paid regular quarterly dividends. To preserve liquidity in light of the impact of COVID-19 on its business operations, the Company temporarily reduced its dividend to an annual dividend of $0.01 per share starting with the dividend for the second quarter of 2020. The amount, declaration and payment of any future dividends will be subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors who will evaluate our dividend policy from time to time based on factors it deems relevant, and the contractual limitations described below. In addition, as a holding company with no independent operations, our ability to pay dividends will depend upon the receipt of cash from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds from operations necessary to pay dividends on our common stock, which has been significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, our senior credit facility contains financial covenants and restrictive covenants that could restrict our ability to pay dividends, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, the Operating Partnership and MGM China credit facilities each contain limitations on the ability of the applicable subsidiary under each credit agreement to pay dividends to us. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future.







34







 




PERFORMANCE GRAPH




 




The graph below matches our cumulative Five-Year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the Dow Jones US Total Return index, the S&P 500 index and the Dow Jones US Gambling index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends as required by the SEC) from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2020. The return shown on the graph is not necessarily indicative of future performance.




 




The following performance graph shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor shall this information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into a filing.










35







 
















ITEM 6.







REMOVED

 AND RESERVED




 
















ITEM 7.







MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 




 




This management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations includes discussion as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019. Discussion of our financial condition and results of operations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018 can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K 

for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on February 27, 2020.




 




Description of our business and key performance indicators




 




Our primary business is the ownership and operation of casino resorts, which offer gaming, hotel, convention, dining, entertainment, retail and other resort amenities. We own or invest in several of the finest casino resorts in the world and we continually reinvest in our resorts to maintain our competitive advantage. Most of our revenue is cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards. We rely heavily on the ability of our resorts to generate operating cash flow to fund capital expenditures, provide excess cash flow for future development and repay debt financings. We make significant investments in our resorts through newly remodeled hotel rooms, restaurants, entertainment and nightlife offerings, as well as other new features and amenities.




 




Our results of operations are affected by decisions we make related to our capital allocation, our access to capital and our cost of capital. While we continue to be focused on improving our financial position and returning capital to shareholders, we are also dedicated to capitalizing on strategic development or initiatives.




 




Our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature, though a variety of factors may affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major conventions, Far East baccarat volumes, the amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end gaming customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including New Year and Lunar New Year. While our results do not depend on key individual customers, a significant portion of our operating income is generated from high-end gaming customers, which can cause variability in our results. In addition, our success in marketing to customer groups such as convention customers and the financial health of customer segments such as business travelers or high-end gaming customers from a specific country or region can affect our results.




 




Financial Impact of COVID-19




 




The spread of COVID-19 and developments surrounding the global pandemic have had, and we expect will continue to have, a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in 2021. In March 2020, all of our domestic properties were temporarily closed pursuant to state and local government restrictions imposed as a result of COVID-19. Throughout the second and third quarters of 2020 all of our properties that were temporarily closed re-opened to the public but continue to operate without certain amenities and subject to certain occupancy limitations

, with restrictions varying by jurisdiction and with further temporary re-closures and re-openings occurring for our properties or portions of our properties into the first quarter of 2021

. In response to reduced demand, we temporarily closed the hotel tower operations at Mandalay Bay and Park MGM midweek and temporarily closed The Mirage midweek

, which are expected to resume full week operations on March 3, 2021

. Accordingly, our properties continued to generate revenues that are significantly lower than historical results. In addition

, as a result of the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the emergence of variant strains, 

our properties may be subject to temporary, complete, or partial shutdowns in the future. At this time, we cannot predict whether the jurisdictions in which our properties are located, states or the federal government will continue to impose operating restrictions on us or adopt similar or more restrictive measures in the future, including stay-at-home orders or ordering the temporary closures of all or a portion of our properties. We have implemented certain measures to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including limitations on the number of gaming tables allowed to operate and on the number of seats at each table game, as well as slot machine spacing, temperature checks, mask protection, limitations on restaurant capacity, entertainment events and conventions as well as other measures to enforce social distancing. In addition, following a temporary closure of our properties in Macau on February 5, 2020, operations resumed on February 20, 2020, subject to certain health safeguards, such as limiting the number of gaming tables allowed to operate and the number of seats available at each table game, slot machine spacing, reduced operating hours at a number of restaurants and bars, temperature checks, mask protection and the need to present negative COVID-19 test results and health declarations submitted through the Macau Health Code system which remain in effect. Effective July 15, 2020, all guests entering our casinos were required to provide a negative nucleic acid test result with a valid ‘green’ Macau Health Code. Although the issuance of tourist visas (including the IVS) for residents of Zhuhai, Guangdong Province and all other provinces in mainland China to travel to Macau resumed on August 12, 2020, August 26, 2020 and September 23, 2020, respectively, several travel and entry restrictions in Macau, Hong Kong and mainland China remain in place (including the temporary suspension of ferry services from Hong Kong to Macau, the nucleic acid test result certificate and mandatory quarantine requirements 




36







 




for visitors from Hong Kong

 and 

Taiwan

,

 

and bans on entry or enhanced quarantine requirements on other visitors into Macau)

, which 

have

 significantly impact

ed

 visitation to our Macau properties

.




 




During 2020, we engaged in aggressive cost reduction efforts to minimize cash outflows while our properties were initially closed and have continued to engage in such efforts as the properties have re-opened, we still face significant fixed and variable expenses. Our efforts included: 




 
















 







•







reducing or deferring at least 50% of planned domestic capital expenditures in 2020;
















 







•







reducing employee costs, including through hiring freezes, headcount reductions and substantial furloughs of employees (which have resulted in a number of employees being separated from us) and cancellation of merit pay increases; 
















 







•







midweek closures of certain hotel towers and properties in response to reduced demand;
















 







•







initiating a program where certain senior executives and directors voluntarily elected to receive all or a portion of their remaining base salary during 2020 in the form of restricted stock units in lieu of cash; and
















 







•







starting with our dividend for the second quarter of 2020, our Board approved a nominal annual dividend of $0.01 per share.




 




On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) was signed into law. The CARES Act provides opportunities for additional liquidity, loan guarantees, and other government programs to support companies affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and their employees. Based on a preliminary analysis of the CARES Act, the benefits we expect to recognize include: 




 
















 







•







refund of federal income taxes due to a five-year carryback of net operating loss incurred in 2020 that we estimate will result in a $205 million to $215 million refund;
















 







•







relaxation of interest expense deduction limitation for income tax purposes, which is included in the estimate above;
















 







•







reduction of employer Federal Insurance Contributions Act (“FICA”) taxes equal to 50% of wages paid and health care coverage provided to furloughed employees during 2020, which resulted in permanent savings of approximately $121 million that was recorded in the year ended December 31, 2020, including our share of the savings recorded by CityCenter; and
















 







•







deferral of all employer FICA taxes from the date of enactment through December 31, 2020, 50% payable by December 2021 and the remainder payable by December 2022, which resulted in a deferral of approximately $51 million.




 




In addition, we have seen and continue to expect to see weakened demand at our properties as a result of continued domestic and international travel restrictions or warnings, restrictions on amenity use, such as gaming, restaurant and pool capacity limitations, consumer fears and reduced consumer discretionary spending, general economic uncertainty, and increased rates of unemployment. In light of the foregoing, we are unable to determine when our properties will return to pre-pandemic demand or pricing, or if our properties will remain re-opened. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations during 2020 and we expect that it will continue to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations during 2021 and potentially thereafter. 




 




The Las Vegas Strip segment results of operations are heavily impacted by visitor volume and trends. During the year ended December 31, 2020, Las Vegas visitor volume decreased 55% compared to the prior year period according to information published by the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. Although the Las Vegas market has had the addition of new sporting events and venues, the expansion of convention centers, as well as music and entertainment events, the COVID-19 pandemic has drastically impacted visitation. 




 




The MGM China segment results of operations also are heavily impacted by visitor volume and trends. During the year ended December 31, 2020 Macau visitor arrivals decreased 85% compared to the prior year period according to statistics published by the Statistics and Census Service of the Macau Government, as a result of the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. 




 




37







 




Other Developments




 




As of December 31, 2020, pursuant to a master lease agreement with MGP, we lease the real estate assets of The Mirage, Luxor, New York-New York, Park MGM, Excalibur, The Park, Gold Strike Tunica, MGM Grand Detroit, Beau Rivage, Borgata, Empire City, MGM National Harbor, and MGM Northfield Park. See Note 1 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding MGP and the Operating Partnership, which we consolidate in our financial statements. All intercompany transactions, including transactions under the master lease with MGP, have been eliminated in consolidation. As further discussed below, pursuant to a lease agreement with the Bellagio BREIT Venture, we lease the real estate assets of Bellagio, and pursuant to a lease agreement with the MGP BREIT Venture, we lease the real estate assets of Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas.




 




In July 2018, MGP completed its Northfield Acquisition for approximately $1.1 billion. In April 2019, we acquired the membership interests of Northfield from MGP and MGP retained the real estate assets. We then rebranded the property to MGM Northfield Park, and added it to the master lease between us and MGP. See Note 4 and Note 18 in the accompanying financial statements for information regarding this acquisition.




 




In July 2018, we and Entain formed BetMGM, a venture that is owned 50% by each party. In connection with its formation, we provided BetMGM with exclusive access to all of our domestic land-based and online sports betting, major tournament poker, and online gaming operations and Entain provided BetMGM with exclusive access to its technology in the United States.




 




Also, in January 2019, we acquired the real property and operations associated with Empire City in Yonkers, New York for consideration of approximately $865 million. Subsequently, MGP acquired the developed real property associated with Empire City from us and Empire City was added to the master lease between us and MGP. In addition, pursuant to the master lease amendment, we agreed to provide MGP a right of first offer with respect to certain undeveloped land adjacent to the property to the extent that we develop additional gaming facilities and choose to sell or transfer such property in the future.  See Note 4 and Note 18 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this acquisition.   




 




In March 2019, we entered into an amendment to the master lease between us and MGP with respect to improvements made by us related to rebranding of the Park MGM and NoMad Las Vegas. See Note 18 in the accompanying financial statements for information regarding this transaction with MGP, which is eliminated in consolidation.   




 




In November 2019, we completed the Bellagio transaction, pursuant to which the Bellagio BREIT Venture was formed, which acquired the Bellagio real estate assets from us and entered into a lease agreement to lease the real estate assets back to us. The Bellagio lease provides for a term of 30 years with two ten-year renewal options and has initial annual base rent of $245 million with a fixed 2% escalator for the first ten years and, thereafter, an escalator equal to the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year, subject to a cap of 3% during the 11th through 20th years and 4% thereafter. In exchange for the contribution of the real estate assets, we received total consideration of $4.25 billion, which consisted of a 5% equity interest in the venture and approximately $4.2 billion in cash. We also provide a shortfall guarantee of the principal amount of indebtedness of the Bellagio BREIT Venture (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon). As a result of the sale, we recorded a gain of approximately $2.7 billion. See Note 1, Note 11, and Note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this transaction, lease agreement, and shortfall guarantee.




 




In December 2019, we sold Circus Circus Las Vegas and adjacent land for $825 million, which consisted of $662.5 million paid in cash and a secured note due 2024 with a face value of $162.5 million and fair value of $133.7 million. In connection with our review of the carrying value of assets to be sold due to the offer for sale received during the third quarter of 2019, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $219 million.  Upon completion of the sale in the fourth quarter, we recorded a loss of $2 million. See Note 1 and Note 16 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this transaction.




 




On February 14, 2020, we completed the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction pursuant to which the real estate assets of MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay (including Mandalay Place) were contributed to MGP BREIT Venture, owned 50.1% by the Operating Partnership and 49.9% by a subsidiary of BREIT. In exchange for the contribution of the real estate assets, MGM and MGP received total consideration of $4.6 billion, which was comprised of $2.5 billion of cash, $1.3 billion of the Operating Partnership’s secured indebtedness assumed by the MGP BREIT Venture, and the Operating Partnership’s 50.1% equity interest in the MGP BREIT Venture. In addition, the Operating Partnership issued approximately 3 million Operating Partnership units to us representing 5% of the equity value of the MGP BREIT Venture. We also provide a shortfall guarantee of the principal amount of indebtedness of the MGP BREIT Venture (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon). On the closing date, BREIT also purchased approximately 5 million MGP Class A shares for $150 million. 

See Note 1, Note 11, and Note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this transaction, lease agreement, and shortfall guarantee.




 




38







 




In connection with the 

MGP BREIT Venture Transaction

, MGP BREIT Venture entered into a lease with us for the real estate assets of Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas. The lease provides for a term of thirty years with two ten-year renewal options and has an initial annual base rent of $292 million, escalating annually at a rate of 2% per annum for the first fifteen years and thereafter equal to the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year subject to a cap of 3%. In addition, the lease 

obligates us

 to spend 

a specified percentage

 of net revenues at the propert

ies

 on capital expenditures and 

that we

 comply with certain financial covenants, which, if not met, 

would 

require us to maintain cash security or provide one o

r

 more letters of credit in favor of the 

landlord

 in an amount equal to the rent for the succeeding one-year period. 

See Note 11 in the accompanying financial statements for information regarding this lease agreement.




 




In connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction, the master lease with MGP was modified to remove the Mandalay Bay property and the annual cash rent under the MGP master lease was reduced by $133 million.




 




Also, on 

January 14, 2020, we, the Operating Partnership, and MGP entered into an agreement for the Operating Partnership to waive its right to issue MGP Class A shares, in lieu of cash, to us in connection with us exercising our right to require the Operating Partnership to redeem the Operating Partnership units we hold, at a price per unit equal to a 3% discount to the applicable cash amount as calculated in accordance with the operating agreement. The waiver was scheduled to terminate on the earlier of 24 months following the closing of the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction or upon our receipt of cash proceeds of $1.4 billion as consideration for the redemption of our Operating Partnership units. On May 18, 2020 the Operating Partnership redeemed approximately 30 million Operating Partnership units that we held for $700 million, or $23.10 per unit, and on December 2, 2020, the Operating Partnership redeemed approximately 24 million Operating Partnership units that we held for the remaining $700 million, or $29.78 per unit. As a result, the waiver terminated in accordance with its terms.




 




In January 2019, we announced the implementation of a company-wide business optimization initiative (the “MGM 2020 Plan”) to further reduce costs, improve efficiencies and position us for growth. With the impact of COVID-19, we further addressed our strategy and cost approach with the aggressive reduction in operating costs, as further discussed earlier.




 




Key Performance Indicators




 




Key performance indicators related to gaming and hotel revenue are: 




 
















 







•







Gaming revenue indicators: table games drop and slots handle (volume indicators); “win” or “hold” percentage, which is not fully controllable by us. Our normal table games hold percentage at our Las Vegas Strip Resorts is in the range of 25.0% to 35.0% of table games drop for Baccarat and 19.0% to 23.0% for non-Baccarat; however, reduced gaming volumes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could cause volatility in our hold percentages; and




 
















 







•







Hotel revenue indicators: hotel occupancy (a volume indicator); average daily rate (“ADR,” a price indicator); and revenue per available room (“REVPAR,” a summary measure of hotel results, combining ADR and occupancy rate). Our calculation of ADR, which is the average price of occupied rooms per day, includes the impact of complimentary rooms. Complimentary room rates are determined based on standalone selling price. Because the mix of rooms provided on a complimentary basis, particularly to casino customers, includes a disproportionate suite component, the composite ADR including complimentary rooms is slightly higher than the ADR for cash rooms, reflecting the higher retail value of suites. Rooms that were out of service during the year ended December 31, 2020 as a result of property closures due to the COVID-19 pandemic were excluded from the available room count when calculating hotel occupancy and REVPAR.




 




Additional key performance indicators at MGM China are:




 
















 







•







Gaming revenue indicators: MGM China utilizes “turnover,” which is the sum of nonnegotiable chip wagers won by MGM China calculated as nonnegotiable chips purchased plus nonnegotiable chips exchanged less nonnegotiable chips returned. Turnover provides a basis for measuring VIP casino win percentage. Win for VIP gaming operations at MGM China is typically in the range of 2.6% to 3.3% of turnover; however, 

reduced gaming volumes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could cause volatility in MGM China’s hold percentages. 

 




 




39







 




Results of Operations

 




 




The following discussion is based on our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. 




 




Summary Financial Results




 




The following table summarizes our operating results: 




 
















 







Year Ended December 31,







 













 







2020







 







 







2019







 







 







2018







 













 







(In thousands)







 













Net revenues







$







5,162,082







 







 







$







12,899,672







 







 







$







11,763,096







 













Operating income (loss)







 







(642,434







)







 







 







3,940,215







 







 







 







1,469,486







 













Net income (loss)







 







(1,319,907







)







 







 







2,214,380







 







 







 







583,894







 













Net income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International







 







(1,032,724







)







 







 







2,049,146







 







 







 







466,772







 










 




Summary Operating Results




 




Our domestic properties were temporarily closed due to COVID-19 on the dates shown below:




 
















Las Vegas Strip Resorts







Closure Date







 







Initial Re-opening Date













Bellagio







March 17, 2020







 







June 4, 2020













MGM Grand Las Vegas







March 17, 2020







 







June 4, 2020













New York-New York







March 17, 2020







 







June 4, 2020













Excalibur







March 17, 2020







 







June 11, 2020













Luxor







March 17, 2020







 







June 25, 2020













Mandalay Bay

(1)







March 17, 2020







 







July 1, 2020













The Mirage

(2)







March 17, 2020







 







August 27, 2020













Park MGM

(1)







March 17, 2020







 







September 30, 2020













Regional Operations







 







 







 













Gold Strike







March 17, 2020







 







May 25, 2020













Beau Rivage







March 17, 2020







 







June 1, 2020













MGM Northfield Park







March 14, 2020







 







June 20, 2020













MGM National Harbor







March 15, 2020







 







June 29, 2020













MGM Springfield

(3)







March 15, 2020







 







July 13, 2020













Borgata







March 16, 2020







 







July 26, 2020













MGM Grand Detroit

(4)







March 16, 2020







 







August 7, 2020













Empire City







March 14, 2020







 







September 21, 2020






















(1)







Park MGM and Mandalay Bay’s hotel tower operations were closed midweek starting November 9, 2020 and November 30, 2020, respectively, with full week hotel tower operations expected to resume on March 3, 2021.
















(2)







The Mirage’s hotel tower operations were closed midweek beginning November 30, 2020. The entire property was closed midweek starting January 4, 2021, with re-opening expected to occur on March 3, 2021.   
















(3)







MGM Springfield’s hotel was closed beginning November 2, 2020, with re-opening expected to occur on March 5, 2021.    
















(4)







MGM Grand Detroit re-closed on November 17, 2020 and re-opened on December 23, 2020, with the hotel tower operations remaining closed through February 8, 2021.




 




Consolidated net revenues in 2020 decreased 60% compared to 2019 due primarily 

to the impact of COVID-19, which included a partial year of operations due to temporary closures at our properties, midweek hotel closures at certain domestic properties subsequent to re-opening, travel restrictions to Macau, including the suspension of the IVS for part of the year, restrictions on the number of table games allowed to operate in certain jurisdictions, and restrictions on the number of seats available at each table at both our domestic resorts and Macau properties, and other social distancing restrictions in place at our properties, including the number of slot machines available for use, property capacity restrictions, and venue/amenity limitations, as discussed above, as well as a decrease in travel and business volume. These factors resulted in a 77% decrease in net revenues at MGM China, a 61% decrease in net revenues at our Las Vegas Strip Resorts, and a 45% decrease in net revenues at our Regional Operations. 




 




Consolidated operating loss was $642 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to operating income of $3.9 billion in 2019, due primarily to the impact of COVID-19 which included a decrease in net revenues discussed above, a $1.2 billion decrease in the gain related to our REIT transactions, and a $21 million increase in general and administrative expense, as discussed 




40







 




below, 

partially offset by 

a decrease in operating expenses as a result of cost reduction efforts during property closures, 

a $

6

6 million decrease in restructuring costs

 of which

 a portion was recorded to corporate expense, discussed below,

 a $

182

 million decrease in property transactions, net, 

and 

a $

94

 million decrease in depreciation and amortization

. 

General and administrative expense increased in the current year period compared to the prior year period due primarily to $

678

 million of rent expense 

in the current year period 

associated with the Bellagio lease and the Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas lease

 compared to $42 million associated with the Bellagio lease in the prior year period

, largely offset by aggressive efforts to reduce expenses at our domestic 

properties

 during 

the temporary

 closures, which primarily related to decreases in payroll expense, utilities, and advertising expense.

 In addition,

 general and administrative expense in

 the 

current year included $10 million of restructuring costs related to severance and accelerated stock compensation expense compared to $76 million in the 

prior year period

. 

Corporate expense 

in the

 current year period included 

$49 million of October 1 litigation settlement expense, $44 million of CEO 

transition expense, 

and 

$

11

 million of restructuring costs. Included in the CEO transition expense is $20 million of stock compensation expense, of which approximately $13 million related to the modification and accelerated vesting of outstanding stock compensation awards. Corporate expense in the prior year period included 

$20 million of Empire City acquisition costs, primarily related to transfer taxes and advisory fees,

 $

29 

million in costs incurred to implement the MGM 2020 Plan

,

 

and $

11

 million in finance modernization initiative costs. 

Property transactions, net

 in

 the current year period included a $64 million other-than-temporary non-cash impairment charge on an equity method investment

 and $17 million related to a loss on production show costs,

 and the prior year period included a $2

20

 million 

loss

 related to the

 sale

 of Circus Circus Las Vegas and the adjacent land.

 

Depreciation and amortization 

and the gain related to our REIT transactions 

decreased compared to the prior year period due primarily to the sale of the MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay real estate assets in February 2020 and the sale of the Bellagio real estate assets in November 2019.




 




41







 




Net Revenues by Segment




 




The following table presents a detail by segment of net revenues:




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,







 













 







 







2020







 







 







2019







 







 







2018







 













 







 







(In thousands)







 













Las Vegas Strip Resorts







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Table games win







 







$







470,432







 







 







$







789,330







 







 







$







949,055







 













Slots win







 







 







649,229







 







 







 







1,193,607







 







 







 







1,140,269







 













Other







 







 







31,014







 







 







 







64,834







 







 







 







62,249







 













Less: Incentives







 







 







(422,421







)







 







 







(751,601







)







 







 







(743,840







)













   Casino revenue







 







 







728,254







 







 







 







1,296,170







 







 







 







1,407,733







 













Rooms







 







 







662,813







 







 







 







1,863,521







 







 







 







1,776,029







 













Food and beverage







 







 







471,529







 







 







 







1,517,745







 







 







 







1,402,378







 













Entertainment, retail and other







 







 







383,189







 







 







 







1,153,615







 







 







 







1,130,532







 













   Non-casino revenue







 







 







1,517,531







 







 







 







4,534,881







 







 







 







4,308,939







 













 







 







 







2,245,785







 







 







 







5,831,051







 







 







 







5,716,672







 













Regional Operations







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Table games win







 







 







487,942







 







 







 







827,155







 







 







 







793,754







 













Slots win







 







 







1,404,567







 







 







 







2,362,638







 







 







 







1,947,325







 













Other







 







 







177,086







 







 







 







313,710







 







 







 







108,690







 













Less: Incentives







 







 







(500,402







)







 







 







(965,723







)







 







 







(822,844







)













   Casino revenue







 







 







1,569,193







 







 







 







2,537,780







 







 







 







2,026,925







 













Rooms







 







 







130,945







 







 







 







316,753







 







 







 







318,017







 













Food and beverage







 







 







184,153







 







 







 







494,243







 







 







 







428,934







 













Entertainment, retail and other







 







 







82,880







 







 







 







201,008







 







 







 







160,645







 













   Non-casino revenue







 







 







397,978







 







 







 







1,012,004







 







 







 







907,596







 













 







 







 







1,967,171







 







 







 







3,549,784







 







 







 







2,934,521







 













MGM China







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













VIP table games win







 







 







212,560







 







 







 







1,237,297







 







 







 







1,235,387







 













Main floor table games win







 







 







467,209







 







 







 







1,906,600







 







 







 







1,391,454







 













Slots win







 







 







72,298







 







 







 







286,939







 







 







 







284,919







 













Less: Commissions and incentives







 







 







(186,396







)







 







 







(821,030







)







 







 







(716,616







)













   Casino revenue







 







 







565,671







 







 







 







2,609,806







 







 







 







2,195,144







 













Rooms







 







 







36,624







 







 







 







142,306







 







 







 







118,527







 













Food and beverage







 







 







40,284







 







 







 







127,152







 







 







 







114,862







 













Entertainment, retail and other







 







 







14,124







 







 







 







26,158







 







 







 







21,424







 













   Non-casino revenue







 







 







91,032







 







 







 







295,616







 







 







 







254,813







 













 







 







 







656,703







 







 







 







2,905,422







 







 







 







2,449,957







 













Reportable segment net revenues







 







 







4,869,659







 







 







 







12,286,257







 







 







 







11,101,150







 













Corporate and other







 







 







292,423







 







 







 







613,415







 







 







 







661,946







 













 







 







$







5,162,082







 







 







$







12,899,672







 







 







$







11,763,096







 










 




Las Vegas Strip Resorts




 




Las Vegas Strip Resorts casino revenue decreased 44% in 2020 compared to 2019

 due primarily to the impact of COVID-19, which included a partial year of operations due to the temporary closure of properties, operational restrictions related to the pandemic, as discussed above, as well as a decrease in travel and business volume, which resulted in decreases in table games win and slots win of 40% and 46%, respectively.




 




42







 




The following table shows key gaming statistics for our Las Vegas Strip Resorts:




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,













 







 







2020







 







2019







 







2018













 







 







(Dollars in millions)













Table Games Drop







 







$2,001







 







$3,526







 







$3,857













Table Games Win %







 







23.5%







 







22.4%







 







24.6%













Slots Handle







 







$6,904







 







$12,874







 







$12,569













Slots Hold %







 







9.4%







 







9.3%







 







9.1%










 




Las Vegas Strip Resorts rooms revenue decreased 64% in 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to the impacts of COVID-19, which included a partial year of operations due to the temporary closure of the properties, midweek hotel closures at certain properties, and a decrease in REVPAR due primarily to a decrease in occupancy as a result of operational restrictions and a decrease in travel and business volume related to the pandemic, as discussed above.




 




The following table shows key hotel statistics for our Las Vegas Strip Resorts:




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,













 







 







2020







 







2019







 







2018













Occupancy







 







55%







 







91%







 







91%













Average Daily Rate (ADR)

(1)







 







$161







 







$167







 







$161













Revenue per Available Room (REVPAR)

(1)







 







88







 







153







 







147










 
















 







(1)







Rooms that were out of service during the year ended December 31, 2020 as a result of property and hotel tower closures due to the COVID-19 pandemic were excluded from the available room count when calculating hotel occupancy and REVPAR.




 




Las Vegas Strip Resorts food and beverage revenue decreased 69% in 2020 compared to 2019 

due primarily to the impact of COVID-19, which included a partial year of operations due to the temporary closure of properties, operational restrictions related to the pandemic, as well as a decrease in travel and business volume

, as discussed above.




 




Las Vegas Strip Resorts entertainment, retail and other revenue decreased 67% in 2020 compared to 2019 

due primarily to the impact of COVID-19, which included a partial year of operations due to the temporary closure of properties, operational restrictions related to the pandemic, as well as a decrease in travel and business volume

, as discussed above, including the temporary closure of entertainment venues, such as theaters and nightclubs.




 




Regional Operations




 




Regional Operations casino revenue decreased 38% in 2020 compared to 2019 

due primarily to the impact of COVID-19, which included a partial year of operations due to the temporary closure of properties, operational restrictions related to the pandemic, as well as a decrease in business volume

, as discussed above, which resulted in decreases in each of table games win and slots win of 41%.




 




The following table shows key gaming statistics for our Regional Operations:




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,













 







 







2020







 







2019







 







2018













 







 







(Dollars in millions)













Table Games Drop







 







$2,422







 







$4,226







 







$4,038













Table Games Win %







 







20.1%







 







19.6%







 







19.7%













Slots Handle







 







$14,527







 







$25,031







 







$21,468













Slots Hold %







 







9.7%







 







9.4%







 







9.1%










 




Regional Operations rooms revenue decreased 59% in 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to the impacts of COVID-19, which included a partial year of operations due to the temporary closure of the properties, the temporary closure of the hotel at MGM Grand Detroit, and a decrease in REVPAR due primarily to a decrease in occupancy as a result of operational restrictions and a decrease in business volume related to the pandemic, as discussed above.




 




43







 




Regional Operations food and beverage revenue 

de

creased 

63

% in 20

20

 compared to 201

9

 

due primarily to the impact of COVID-19, which included a partial year of operations due to the temporary closure of properties, operational restrictions related to the pandemic, as well as a decrease in business volume

, as discussed above

. 




 




Regional Operations entertainment, retail and other revenue decreased 59% in 2020 compared to 2019 

due primarily to the impact of COVID-19, which included a partial year of operations due to the temporary closure of properties, operational restrictions related to the pandemic, as well as a decrease in business volume

, as discussed above

, including the temporary closure of certain entertainment venues such as theaters

.




 




MGM China




 




The following table shows key gaming statistics for MGM China:




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,













 







 







2020







 







2019







 







2018













 







 







(Dollars in millions)













VIP Table Games Turnover







 







$7,015







 







$38,071







 







$40,599













VIP Table Games Win %







 







3.0%







 







3.2%







 







3.0%













Main Floor Table Games Drop







 







$2,037







 







$8,252







 







$7,566













Main Floor Table Games Win %







 







22.9%







 







23.1%







 







18.4%










 




MGM China net revenue decreased 77% in 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to the suspension of operations for a 15-day period in February, travel restrictions to Macau, including the suspension of the IVS for the majority of the current year period, as well as other operational restrictions and a decrease in travel and business volume related to the pandemic, as discussed above. VIP table games win decreased 83% and main floor table games win decreased 75% compared to the prior year period. 




 




Corporate and other




 




Corporate and other revenue includes revenues from other corporate operations, management services and reimbursed costs revenue primarily related to our CityCenter management agreement. Corporate and other revenue in 2019 included $68 million in net revenues from MGP’s Northfield casino, which represents revenues prior to our acquisition of MGM Northfield Park’s operations from MGP on April 1, 2019. Reimbursed costs revenue represents reimbursement of costs, primarily payroll-related, incurred by us in connection with the provision of management services and was $245 million, $437 million and $425 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Reimbursed costs revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased compared to the prior year due primarily to property closures and other operational restrictions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. See below for additional discussion of our share of operating results from unconsolidated affiliates.




 




Adjusted Property EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDAR




 




The following table presents Adjusted Property EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDAR. Adjusted Property EBITDAR is our reportable segment generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) measure, which we utilize as the primary profit measure for our reportable segments. See Note 17 – 

Segment Information

 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and “Reportable Segment GAAP measure” below for additional information.  




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,







 













 







 







2020







 







 







2019







 







 







2018







 













 







 







(In thousands)







 













Las Vegas Strip Resorts







 







$







232,188







 







 







$







1,643,122







 







 







$







1,706,315







 













Regional Operations







 







 







343,990







 







 







 







969,866







 







 







 







781,854







 













MGM China







 







 







(193,832







)







 







 







734,729







 







 







 







574,333







 













Corporate and other







 







 







(530,843







)







 







 







(331,621







)







 







 







(224,800







)













Adjusted EBITDAR







 







$







(148,497







)







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 










 




44







 




Las Vegas Strip Resorts




 




Adjusted Property EBITDAR at our Las Vegas Strip Resorts decreased 86% and Adjusted Property EBITDAR margin decreased to 10.3% in 2020 from 28.2% in 2019. Adjusted Property EBITDAR decreased compared to the prior year period due primarily to a decrease in casino and non-casino revenues resulting from the temporary closure of our properties, operational restrictions related to the pandemic, and a decrease in travel and business volume, partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses as a result of cost reduction efforts.




 




Regional Operations




 




Adjusted Property EBITDAR at our Regional Operations decreased 65% in 2020 and Adjusted Property EBITDAR margin decreased to 17.5% in 2020 from 27.3% in 2019. Adjusted Property EBITDAR decreased compared to the prior year period due primarily to a decrease in casino and non-casino revenues resulting from the temporary closure of our properties, operational restrictions related to the pandemic, and a decrease in business volume, partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses as a result of cost reduction efforts.




 




MGM China




 




MGM China’s Adjusted Property EBITDAR loss was $194 million in 2020 compared to Adjusted Property EBITDAR of $735 million in 2019 due primarily to a decrease in casino revenues resulting from the temporary suspension of casino operations, travel restrictions to Macau, including the suspension of the IVS for majority of the current year period, operational restrictions related to the pandemic, and a decrease in travel and business volumes. The current period included $11 million of license fee expense compared to $51 million in the prior year period.




 




Operating Results – Details of Certain Charges 




 




Property transactions, net consisted of the following:   




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,







 













 







 







2020







 







 







2019







 







 







2018







 













 







 







(In thousands)







 













Loss related to sale of Circus Circus Las Vegas and adjacent land







 







$







—







 







 







$







220,294







 







 







$







—







 













Gain on sale of Grand Victoria







 







 







—







 







 







 







—







 







 







 







(44,703







)













Other property transactions, net







 







 







93,567







 







 







 







55,508







 







 







 







53,850







 













 







 







$







93,567







 







 







$







275,802







 







 







$







9,147







 










 




See Note 16 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of property transactions, net.




 




Operating Results – Income from Unconsolidated Affiliates 




 




The following table summarizes information related to our share of operating income from unconsolidated affiliates: 




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,







 













 







 







2020







 







 







2019







 







 







2018







 













 







 







(In thousands)







 













CityCenter







 







$







(29,753







)







 







$







128,421







 







 







$







138,383







 













MGP BREIT Venture







 







 







136,755







 







 







 







—







 







 







 







—







 













Other







 







 







(64,064







)







 







 







(8,900







)







 







 







9,307







 













 







 







$







42,938







 







 







$







119,521







 







 







$







147,690







 










 




On March 17, 2020, CityCenter temporarily closed to the public as a result of the unprecedented public health crisis from the COVID-19 pandemic described above. Aria re-opened on July 1, 2020 and Vdara re-opened on July 16, 2020.




 




In 2020, our share of CityCenter’s operating loss, including certain basis difference adjustments, was $30 million compared to operating income of $128 million in 2019, primarily driven by the decrease in CityCenter’s casino and non-casino revenue as a result of the operational restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the temporary closure, as well as a decrease in travel and business volume. 




 




45







 




Non-operating Results 




 




Interest expense.

 The following table summarizes information related to interest expense, net: 




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,







 













 







 







2020







 







 







2019







 







 







2018







 













 







 







(In thousands)







 













Total interest incurred







 







$







679,251







 







 







$







853,007







 







 







$







821,229







 













Interest capitalized







 







 







(2,871







)







 







 







(5,075







)







 







 







(51,716







)













 







 







$







676,380







 







 







$







847,932







 







 







$







769,513







 










 




Gross interest expense was $679 million in 2020 compared to $853 million in 2019. The decrease in gross interest expense was due primarily to a decrease in the average debt outstanding under the credit facilities and senior notes due to the early retirement of debt discussed below, partially offset by the May 2020 issuance of the $750 million 6.75% senior notes due 2025, the June 2020 issuance of the Operating Partnership’s $800 million 4.625% senior notes due 2025, the June 2020 issuance of MGM China’s $500 million 5.25% senior notes due 2025, the October 2020 issuance of the $750 million 4.75% senior notes due 2028, and the November 2020 issuance of the Operating Partnership’s $750 million 3.875% senior notes due 2029. See Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion on long-term debt and see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional discussion on issuances and repayments of long-term debt and other sources and uses of cash.




 




Other, net. 

Other expenses, net in 2020 decreased $94 million compared to 2019. The current year period included a $109 million loss incurred on the early retirement of debt related to our senior notes and the termination of our revolving facility, as well as an $18 million loss incurred on the early retirement of debt related to the Operating Partnership’s repayment of its term loan A facility and its term loan B facility, partially offset by a $7 million remeasurement gain on MGM China’s U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes, and a $18 million increase in interest income resulting from an increase in cash and cash equivalents. The prior year period included a $198 million loss incurred on the early retirement of debt related to our senior notes and senior credit facility, the Operating Partnership’s prepayments on its senior credit facility, and the early retirement of debt related to MGM China’s senior secured credit facility, partially offset by a $11 million remeasurement gain on MGM China’s U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion on long-term debt. 




 




Income taxes.

 The following table summarizes information related to our income taxes: 




 




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,







 













 







 







2020







 







 







2019







 







 







2018







 













 







 







(In thousands)







 













Income (loss) before income taxes







 







$







(1,511,479







)







 







$







2,846,725







 







 







$







634,006







 













Benefit (provision) for income taxes







 







 







191,572







 







 







 







(632,345







)







 







 







(50,112







)













Effective income tax rate







 







 







12.7







%







 







 







22.2







%







 







 







7.9







%













Federal, state and foreign income taxes paid, net of refunds







 







$







8,543







 







 







$







28,493







 







 







$







(10,100







)










 




Our effective rate for 2020 was unfavorably impacted by losses incurred on our Macau operations for which we could not provide tax benefit and increases to valuation allowances for Macau deferred tax assets and foreign tax credits, partially offset by tax benefit resulting from carrying back net operating losses to tax years with a higher tax rate than is currently in effect. Our effective tax rate for 2019 was driven primarily by the $2.7 billion gain recorded on the Bellagio transaction. Income tax expense recorded on this gain results in our effective tax rate approximating our federal and state combined statutory rate and minimizes the impact of other items.  




 




Cash taxes paid decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 due to the impact of COVID-19 on business operations.  In addition, 2019 cash taxes paid included federal taxes paid on the liquidation of MGP OH, Inc., a consolidated subsidiary directly owned by MGM Growth Properties Operating Partnership LP.




 




Reportable Segment GAAP measure 




 




“Adjusted Property EBITDAR” is our reportable segment GAAP measure, which we utilize as the primary profit measure for our reportable segments and underlying operating segments. Adjusted Property EBITDAR is a measure defined as earnings before interest and other non-operating income (expense), taxes, depreciation and amortization, preopening and start-up expenses, gain on REIT transactions, net, restructuring costs (which represents costs related to severance, accelerated stock compensation expense, and consulting fees directly related to the operating model component of the MGM 2020 Plan), rent expense associated with triple-net 




46







 




operating and ground leases, income from unconsolidated affiliates related to investments in real estate ventures, property transactions, net, and also excludes corporate expense and stock compensation expense, which are not allocated to each operating segment, and rent expense related to the master lease with MGP that eliminates in consolidation. We manage capital allocation, tax planning, stock compensation, and financing decisions at the corporate level. “Adjusted Property EBITDAR margin” is Adjusted Property EBITDAR divided by related segment net revenues.




 




Non-GAAP Measure 




 




“Adjusted EBITDAR” is earnings before interest and other non-operating income (expense), taxes, depreciation and amortization, preopening and start-up expenses, gain on REIT transactions, net, CEO transition expense, October 1 litigation settlement, restructuring costs (which represents costs related to severance, accelerated stock compensation expense, and consulting fees directly related to the operating model component of the MGM 2020 Plan), rent expense associated with triple-net operating and ground leases, income from unconsolidated affiliates related to investments in real estate ventures, and property transactions, net. 




 




Adjusted EBITDAR information is a valuation metric, should not be used as an operating metric, and is presented solely as a supplemental disclosure to reported GAAP measures because we believe this measure is widely used by analysts, lenders, financial institutions, and investors as a principal basis for the valuation of gaming companies. We believe that while items excluded from Adjusted EBITDAR may be recurring in nature and should not be disregarded in evaluation of our earnings performance, it is useful to exclude such items when analyzing current results and trends. Also, we believe excluded items may not relate specifically to current trends or be indicative of future results. For example, preopening and start-up expenses will be significantly different in periods when we are developing and constructing a major expansion project and will depend on where the current period lies within the development cycle, as well as the size and scope of the project(s). Property transactions, net includes normal recurring disposals, gains and losses on sales of assets related to specific assets within our resorts, but also includes gains or losses on sales of an entire operating resort or a group of resorts and impairment charges on entire asset groups or investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which may not be comparable period over period. However, as discussed herein, Adjusted EBITDAR should not be viewed as a measure of overall operating performance, considered in isolation, or as an alternative to net income, because this measure is not presented on a GAAP basis and exclude certain expenses, including the rent expense associated with our triple-net operating and ground leases, and are provided for the limited purposes discussed herein. 




 




Adjusted EBITDAR should not be construed as an alternative to operating income or net income, as an indicator of our performance; or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as a measure of liquidity; or as any other measure determined in accordance with GAAP. We have significant uses of cash flows, including capital expenditures, interest payments, taxes, real estate triple-net lease and ground lease payments, and debt principal repayments, which are not reflected in Adjusted EBITDAR. Also, other companies in the gaming and hospitality industries that report Adjusted EBITDAR information may calculate Adjusted EBITDAR in a different manner and such differences may be material.




 




47







 




The following table presents a reconciliation of net income attributable to MGM Resorts International to Adjusted EBITDA

R

: 




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,







 













 







 







2020







 







 







2019







 







 







2018







 













 







 







(In thousands)







 













Net income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International







 







$







(1,032,724







)







 







$







2,049,146







 







 







$







466,772







 













Plus: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests







 







 







(287,183







)







 







 







165,234







 







 







 







117,122







 













Net income (loss)







 







 







(1,319,907







)







 







 







2,214,380







 







 







 







583,894







 













Provision (benefit) for income taxes







 







 







(191,572







)







 







 







632,345







 







 







 







50,112







 













Income (loss) before income taxes







 







 







(1,511,479







)







 







 







2,846,725







 







 







 







634,006







 













Non-operating expense







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized







 







 







676,380







 







 







 







847,932







 







 







 







769,513







 













Non-operating items from unconsolidated affiliates







 







 







103,304







 







 







 







62,296







 







 







 







47,827







 













Other, net







 







 







89,361







 







 







 







183,262







 







 







 







18,140







 













 







 







 







869,045







 







 







 







1,093,490







 







 







 







835,480







 













Operating income (loss)







 







 







(642,434







)







 







 







3,940,215







 







 







 







1,469,486







 













Preopening and start-up expenses







 







 







84







 







 







 







7,175







 







 







 







151,392







 













Property transactions, net







 







 







93,567







 







 







 







275,802







 







 







 







9,147







 













Gain on REIT transactions, net







 







 







(1,491,945







)







 







 







(2,677,996







)







 







 







—







 













Depreciation and amortization







 







 







1,210,556







 







 







 







1,304,649







 







 







 







1,178,044







 













CEO transition expense







 







 







44,401







 







 







 







—







 







 







 







—







 













October 1 litigation settlement







 







 







49,000







 







 







 







—







 







 







 







—







 













Restructuring







 







 







26,025







 







 







 







92,139







 







 







 







—







 













Triple-net operating lease and ground lease rent expense







 







 







710,683







 







 







 







74,656







 







 







 







29,633







 













Income from unconsolidated affiliates related to real estate ventures







 







 







(148,434







)







 







 







(544







)







 







 







—







 













Adjusted EBITDAR







 







$







(148,497







)







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 










 




 




Guarantor Financial Information




 




As of December 31, 2020, all of our principal debt arrangements are guaranteed by each of our wholly owned material domestic subsidiaries that guarantee our senior credit facility. Our principal debt arrangements are not guaranteed by MGP, the Operating Partnership, MGM Grand Detroit, MGM National Harbor, Blue Tarp reDevelopment, LLC (the entity that owns and operates MGM Springfield), and each of their respective subsidiaries. Our foreign subsidiaries, including MGM China and its subsidiaries, are also not guarantors of our principal debt arrangements. In the event that any subsidiary is no longer a guarantor of our credit facility or any of our future capital markets indebtedness, that subsidiary will be released and relieved of its obligations to guarantee our existing senior notes. The indentures governing the senior notes further provide that in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of, or capital stock in a subsidiary guarantor then such subsidiary guarantor will be released and relieved of any obligations under its subsidiary guarantee.




 




The guarantees provided by the subsidiary guarantors rank senior in right of payment to any future subordinated debt of ours or such subsidiary guarantors, junior to any secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt and effectively subordinated to any indebtedness and other obligations of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes. In addition, the obligations of each subsidiary guarantor under its guarantee is limited so as not to constitute a fraudulent conveyance under applicable law, which may eliminate the subsidiary guarantor’s obligations or reduce such obligations to an amount that effectively makes the subsidiary guarantee lack value.




 




48







 




The summarized financial information of us and our guarantor subsidiaries, on a combined basis, is presented below. Certain of our guarantor subsidiaries collectively own Operating Partnership units and each subsidiary accounts for its respective investment under the equity method within the summarized financial information presented below. These subsidiaries have also accounted for the MGP master lease as an operating lease, recording operating lease liabilities and operating ROU assets with the related rent expense of guarantor subsidiaries reflected within the summarized financial information.




 
















 







December 31,







 













 







2020







 













Balance Sheet







(In thousand)







 













Current assets







$







4,749,542







 













Investment in the MGP Operating Partnership







 







1,617,055







 













Intercompany accounts due from non-guarantor subsidiaries







 







16,622







 













MGP master lease right-of-use asset, net







 







6,714,101







 













Other long-term assets







 







12,318,912







 













MGP master lease operating lease liabilities – current







 







153,415







 













Other current liabilities







 







1,123,814







 













MGP master lease operating lease liabilities – noncurrent







 







7,191,450







 













Other long-term liabilities







 







15,827,794







 










 
















 







Year Ended







 













 







December 31,







 













 







2020







 













Income Statement







(In thousand)







 













Net revenues







$







3,586,846







 













MGP master lease rent expense







 







(641,841







)













Operating loss







 







(222,009







)













Loss from continuing operations







 







(520,152







)













Net loss







 







(310,705







)













Net loss attributable to MGM Resorts International







 







(310,705







)










 




 




Liquidity and Capital Resources 




 




Cash Flows – Summary




 




Our cash flows consisted of the following:  




 
















 







 







Year Ended December 31,













 







 







2020







 







 







2019







 







 







2018







 







 













 







 







(In thousands)













Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities







 







$







(1,493,043







)







 







$







1,810,401







 







 







$







1,722,539







 







 













Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities







 







 







2,159,304







 







 







 







3,519,434







 







 







 







(2,083,021







)







 













Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities







 







 







2,103,427







 







 







 







(4,529,594







)







 







 







389,234







 







 










 




Cash Flows 




 




Operating activities.

 

Trends in our operating cash flows tend to follow trends in operating income, excluding non-cash charges, but can be affected by changes in working capital, the timing of significant interest payments, tax payments or refunds, and distributions from unconsolidated affiliates

. Cash used in operating activities was $1.5 billion in 2020 compared to cash provided by operating activities of $1.8 billion in 2019. 

Operating cash flows were significantly negatively impacted by the temporary closures at our properties and hotels, travel restrictions to Macau, and other operational restrictions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, as discussed above, and triple-net operating lease rent payments, partially offset by an increase in distributions from unconsolidated affiliates primarily received from the MGP BREIT Venture and a decrease in cash paid for interest, as discussed in “Non-operating Results.”

 

In addition to the decrease in our operating results across all properties, the current year period was negatively affected by a change in working capital primarily related to a decrease in accrued expenses, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable, each of which were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, discussed above, and the settlement of the October 1 litigation. The prior year period was negatively affected by a change in working capital, primarily related to gaming deposits

.




 




49







 




Investing activities.

 

Our investing cash flows can fluctuate significantly from year to year depending on our decisions with respect to strategic capital investments in new or existing resorts, business acquisitions or dispositions, and the timing of maintenance capital expenditures to maintain the quality of our resorts. Capital expenditures related to regular investments in our existing resorts can also vary depending on timing of larger remodel projects related to our public spaces and hotel rooms

. 




 




Cash provided by investing activities decreased to $2.2 billion in 2020 from $3.5 billion in 2019. 

The change was due primarily to $2.5 billion in net cash proceeds from the sale of the real estate of Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas in the current year compared to 

$4.2 billion of proceeds received related to the sale of Bellagio and $652 million of proceeds received related to the sale of Circus Circus Las Vegas and adjacent land that was partially offset by a $536 million outflow for the acquisition of Empire City in the prior year, and a decrease of $468 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by a $37 million decrease in distributions from unconsolidated affiliates. 

In the current year period, distributions from unconsolidated affiliates included $51 million related to our share of a distribution received from CityCenter. In the prior year period, distributions from unconsolidated affiliates included $90 million related to our share of a distribution received from CityCenter. 

The decrease in capital expenditures primarily reflects our efforts to reduce or defer planned domestic capital expenditures as we mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our liquidity, and the substantial completion of our MGM Springfield development project, the rebranding at Park MGM, and the expansion of the convention center at MGM Grand Las Vegas in the prior year, as discussed in further detail below.




 




Capital Expenditures




 




In 2020, we made capital expenditures of $271 million, of which $108 million related to MGM China. Capital expenditures at MGM China included $95 million primarily related to construction close-out and projects at MGM Cotai and $13 million related to projects at MGM Macau. Capital expenditures at our Las Vegas Strip Resorts, Regional Operations and corporate entities of $162 million included expenditures relating to information technology, health and safety initiatives, and various room, restaurant, and entertainment venue remodels.




 




In 2019, we made capital expenditures of $739 million, of which $146 million related to MGM China. 

Capital expenditures at MGM China included $118 million related to projects at MGM Cotai and $28 million related to projects at MGM Macau. Capital expenditures at our Las Vegas Strip Resorts, Regional Operations and corporate entities of $593 million included $49 million related to the construction of MGM Springfield, $52 million related to the Park MGM rebranding project, as well as expenditures relating to information technology, the expansion of the convention center at MGM Grand Las Vegas and various room, restaurant, and entertainment venue remodels.




 




Financing activities.

 

Cash provided by financing activities was $2.1 billion in 2020 compared to cash used in financing activities of $4.5 billion in 2019. In 2020, 

we received net proceeds from the incurrence of the bridge loan facility in connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction of $1.3 billion, net proceeds of $525 million 

from MGP’s Class A share issuances,

 net debt borrowings of $1.1 billion, as further discussed below, repurchased $354 million of our common stock, distributed $286 million to noncontrolling interest owners, and paid $78 million in dividends to our shareholders. In comparison, in the prior year period, we repaid net debt of $4.1 billion, had

 net proceeds from MGP’s issuance of Class A shares of $1.3 billion, repurchased $1.0 billion of our common stock, distributed $223 million to noncontrolling interest owners, and paid $271 million in dividends to our shareholders.




 




Borrowings and Repayments of Long-term Debt

   




 




In 2020, we had net proceeds from the incurrence of the bridge loan facility in connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction of $1.3 billion and net debt borrowings of $1.1 billion, which consisted of net borrowings on MGM China’s credit facility of $103 million, our issuance of $750 million of 4.75% senior notes and $750 million of 6.75% senior notes, the Operating Partnership’s issuance of $750 million of 3.875% senior notes and $800 million of 4.625% senior notes, and MGM China’s issuance of $500 million of 5.25% senior notes, partially offset by the tender of $750 million of our senior notes and the corresponding $97 million of tender offer costs, and the net repayment of $1.7 billion on the Operating Partnership's senior credit facility consisting of the repayment of $1.3 billion of its term loan B facility in full using the proceeds of the $1.3 billion bridge loan facility, which was then assumed by the MGP BREIT Venture, the repayment of its $399 million term loan A facility in full using the net proceeds from MGP’s settlement of forward equity agreements, partially offset by a net draw of $10 million on its revolving credit facility.




 




In March 2020, with certain of the proceeds from the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction, we completed cash tender offers for an aggregate amount of $750 million of our senior notes, comprised of $325 million principal amount of our outstanding 5.75% senior notes due 2025, $100 million principal amount of our outstanding 4.625% senior notes due 2026, and $325 million principal amount of our outstanding 5.5% senior notes due 2027.




 




In May 2020, we issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 

6.750% senior notes due 2025. The proceeds were used to further increase our liquidity position.




50







 




 




In June 2020, the Operating Partnership issued $800 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes due 2025. The proceeds were used to repay borrowings on the Operating Partnership’s senior credit facility, which were used to fund the May 2020 redemption of $700 million of Operating Partnership units held by us.




 




In June 2020, MGM China issued $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due 2025. The proceeds were used to partially repay amounts outstanding under the MGM China credit facility and for general corporate purposes.




 




In October 2020, we issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due 2028. 

The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes.




 




In November 2020, the Operating Partnership issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due 2029. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, which included the December 2020 redemption of $700 million of the Operating Partnership units held by us.




 




In 2019, 

we repaid net debt of $4.1 billion which consisted of the repayment of our $850 million 8.625% notes due 2019, the repayment of an aggregate $2.8 billion of our senior notes, as described below, $750 million of net repayments on our senior credit facility, $1.1 billion of net repayments on the Operating Partnership’s senior credit facility, and $1.8 billion of net repayments on the current and previous MGM China senior secured credit facilities, partially offset by our issuance of $1.0 billion of our senior notes, the Operating Partnership’s issuance of $750 million of senior notes, and MGM China’s issuance of $1.5 billion of senior notes.

 




 




In April 2019, we issued $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of 5.5% senior notes due 2027. We used the net proceeds from the offering to fund the purchase of $639 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 6.75% senior notes due 2020 and $233 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 5.25% senior notes due 2020 through our cash tender offers. In December 2019, we used a portion of the net proceeds from the Bellagio transaction to redeem for cash the remaining $267 million principal amount of its outstanding 5.25% senior notes due 2020, the remaining $361 million principal amount of its outstanding 6.75% senior notes due 2020, all $1.25 billion principal amount of its outstanding 6.625% senior notes due 2021, permanently repay the $750 million outstanding on our term loan A facility, and fully repay amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility.  




 




In May 2019, MGM China issued

 $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due 2024 and $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.875% senior notes due 2026 and used the proceeds to permanently repay approximately $1.0 billion on its term loan facility with the remainder used to pay down its revolving credit facility. In August 2019, MGM China entered into a new $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, on which it drew $776 million and used the proceeds to fully repay the borrowings outstanding under its previous senior secured credit facility. 




 




In November 2019, the Operating Partnership used the proceeds from its November 2019 Class A share issuance to prepay $65 million on the term loan A facility and $476 million on the term loan B facility, which reflects all scheduled amortization plus additional principal, and fully repaid the outstanding balance on its revolving credit facility. The proceeds from the Operating Partnership’s issuance of $750 million 5.75% senior notes due 2027 in January 2019 along with the proceeds from MGP’s January 2019 Class A share issuance were primarily used to finance MGP’s acquisition of the real property associated with Empire City and finance the Park MGM Transaction.




 




Dividends, Distributions to Noncontrolling Interest Owners and Share Repurchases

   




 




In May 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion stock repurchase program and completed the previously announced $1.0 billion stock repurchase program. In 2020, 

we repurchased and retired $354 million of our common stock pursuant to our current $2.0 billion stock repurchase plan.

 In 2019, w

e repurchased and retired $1.0 billion of our common stock pursuant to our current $2.0 billion stock repurchase plan. 

The remaining availability under our $2.0 billion stock repurchase program was approximately $4 million as of December 31, 2020, and the remaining availability under the $3.0 billion stock repurchase program was $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2020.




 




In March 2020, we paid a dividend of $0.15 per share, and in June 2020, September 2020 and December 2020, we paid dividends of $0.0025 per share, totaling $78 million for 2020. In March 2019, June 2019, September 2019 and December 2019, we paid dividends of $0.13 per share, totaling $271 million for 2019.




 




In 2020, MGM China paid the final dividend for 2019 of $41 million, of which we received $23 million and noncontrolling interests received $18 million.

 In 2019, MGM China paid dividends of $62 million, of which we received $35 million and noncontrolling interests received $27 million. 




 




51







 




The 

Operating

 Partnership paid the following distributions to its partnership unit holders

 during 20

20

 and

 

201

9

:




 
















 







•







$602 million of distributions paid in 2020, of which we received $358 million and MGP received $244 million, which MGP concurrently paid as a dividend to its Class A shareholders; and
















 







•







$534 million of distributions paid in 2019, of which we received $372 million and MGP received $162 million, which MGP concurrently paid as a dividend to its Class A shareholders.




 




Other Factors Affecting Liquidity and Anticipated Uses of Cash




 




We require a certain amount of cash on hand to operate our resorts. In addition to required cash on hand for operations, we utilize corporate cash management procedures to minimize the amount of cash held on hand or in banks. Funds are swept from the accounts at most of our domestic resorts daily into central bank accounts, and excess funds are invested overnight or are used to repay amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility. In addition, from time to time we may use excess funds to repurchase our outstanding debt and equity securities subject to limitations in our revolving credit facility and Delaware law, as applicable. We have significant outstanding debt, interest payments, rent payments, and contractual obligations in addition to planned capital expenditures and investments

.




 




As previously discussed, the spread of COVID-19 and developments surrounding the global pandemic have had, and we expect will continue to have, a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. During this time, we have remained committed to managing our expenses to strengthen our liquidity position. As of December 31, 2020, we had cash and cash equivalents of $5.1 billion, of which MGM China held $344 million and the Operating Partnership held $626 million. In addition to our cash and cash equivalent balance, we have significant real estate assets and other holdings: we own MGM Springfield, a 50% interest in CityCenter in Las Vegas, an approximate 56% interest in MGM China, and a 53% economic interest in MGP. 




 




At December 31, 2020, we had $12.5 billion in principal amount of indebtedness, including $10 million outstanding under the $1.35 billion Operating Partnership revolving credit facility, and $770 million outstanding under the $1.25 billion MGM China revolving credit facility. No amounts were drawn on our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility or the $400 million MGM China second revolving credit facility. 

We have no debt maturing prior to 2022.




 




We have planned capital expenditures in 2021 of approximately $425 million to $450 million domestically and approximately $100 million to $125 million at MGM China. We also plan to invest approximately $220 million in BetMGM during 2021. 

As of December 31, 2020, our expected cash interest payments excluding MGP and MGM China for each of 2021, 2022, and 2023 was approximately $340 million, and our expected cash interest payments on a consolidated basis for 2021, 2022, and 2023 were approximately $720 million, $715 million, and $705 million, respectively. We are also required as of December 31, 2020 to make annual rent payments of $828 million under the master lease with MGP, annual rent payments of $250 million under the lease with Bellagio BREIT Venture, and annual rent payments of $292 million under the lease with MGP BREIT Venture, which leases are also subject to annual escalators. 




 




In April 2020, we amended our credit facility to provide us with certain relief from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The amendment provides us a waiver of the financial maintenance covenants for the period beginning with the quarter ending June 30, 2020 through the earlier of (x) the date we deliver to the administrative agent a compliance certificate with respect to the quarter ending June 30, 2021 and (y) the date we deliver to the administrative agent an irrevocable notice terminating the covenant relief period (such period, the “covenant relief period”). In connection with the amendment, we pledged the Operating Partnership units held by loan parties to the lenders as collateral. We also agreed to certain limitations including, among other things, further restricting our ability to incur debt and liens, make restricted payments, make investments and prepay subordinated debt. In addition, in connection with the amendment, we agreed to a liquidity test that requires our borrower group (as defined in the credit agreement) to maintain a minimum liquidity level of not less than $600 million (including unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and availability under the revolving credit facility), tested at the end of each month during the covenant relief period. In February 2021, we further amended our credit facility to extend the covenant relief period through (but excluding) the second quarter of 2022 and adjust the required leverage and interest coverage levels for the covenant when it is reimposed at the end of the waiver period. Pursuant to that amendment, we agreed to increase our total required minimum liquidity level to $1.0 billion.




 




Additionally, due to the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, in April 2020, MGM China entered into an amendment to its credit agreement, which provided for a waiver of its maximum leverage ratio through the second quarter of 2021, and a waiver of its minimum interest coverage ratio beginning in the second quarter of 2020 through the second quarter of 2021. 

In October 2020, MGM China further amended its credit agreement to provide for a waiver of its maximum leverage ratio and its minimum interest coverage ratio through the fourth quarter of 2021. In October 2020, MGM China entered into an amendment of its second credit facility which provided for a waiver of its maximum leverage ratio and its minimum interest coverage ratio through the fourth quarter 




52







 




of 2021.

 In February 2021, 

MGM China further amended each of its revolving credit facility and its second revolving credit facility to provide for waivers of the maximum leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio through the fourth quarter of 2022.




 




In January 2021, the Operating Partnership paid $136 million of distributions to its partnership unit holders, of which we received $72 million and MGP received $64 million, which MGP concurrently paid as a dividend to its Class A shareholders.




 




On February 10, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.0025 per share. The dividend will be payable on March 15, 2021 to holders of record on March 10, 2021. Future determinations regarding the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our results of operations, financial condition, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant

.




 




As previously discussed, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused, and is continuing to cause, significant economic disruption both globally and in the United States, and will continue to impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot predict the degree, or duration, to which our operations will be affected by the COVID-19 outbreak, and the effects could be material.  While we believe our strong liquidity position, valuable real estate assets and aggressive cost reduction initiatives will enable us to fund our current obligations for the foreseeable future, COVID-19 has resulted in significant disruption of global financial markets, which could have a negative impact on our ability to access capital in the future. We continue to monitor the rapidly evolving situation and guidance from international and domestic authorities, including federal, state and local public health authorities and may take additional actions based on their recommendations. In these circumstances, there may be developments outside our control requiring us to further adjust our operating plan, including the implementation or extension of new or existing restrictions, which may include the reinstatement of stay-at-home orders in the jurisdictions in which we operate or additional restrictions on travel and/or our business operations. Because the situation is ongoing, and because the duration and severity remain unclear, it is difficult to forecast any impacts on our future results

.




 




For additional information related to our long-term obligations, refer to the maturities of long-term debt table in Note 9 and the lease liability maturity table in Note 11.




 




Principal Debt Arrangements 




 




See Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding our debt agreements as of December 31, 2020. 




 




Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

 




 




Management’s discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements. To prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we must make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. We regularly evaluate these estimates and assumptions, particularly in areas we consider to be critical accounting estimates, where the estimates and assumptions involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. However, by their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and therefore actual results can differ from our estimates. 




 




Loss Reserve for Casino Accounts Receivable

 




 




Marker play represents a significant portion of the table games volume at certain of our Las Vegas resorts. Our other casinos do not emphasize marker play to the same extent, although we offer markers to customers at those casinos as well. MGM China extends credit to certain in-house VIP gaming customers and gaming promoters. We maintain strict controls over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue collection from our customers who fail to pay their marker balances timely. These collection efforts are similar to those used by most large corporations when dealing with overdue customer accounts, including the mailing of statements and delinquency notices, personal contacts, the use of outside collection agencies and civil litigation. Markers are generally legally enforceable instruments in the United States and Macau. Markers are not legally enforceable instruments in some foreign countries, but the United States assets of foreign customers may be reached to satisfy judgments entered in the United States. We consider the likelihood and difficulty of enforceability, among other factors, when we issue credit to customers at our domestic resorts who are not residents of the United States. MGM China performs background checks and investigates the credit worthiness of gaming promoters and casino customers prior to issuing credit. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of our casino receivables and those due from customers residing in foreign countries. 




 




We maintain a loss reserve for casino accounts at all of our operating casino resorts. The provision for doubtful accounts, an operating expense, increases the loss reserve. We regularly evaluate the loss reserve for casino accounts. At domestic resorts where marker play is not significant, the loss reserve is generally established by applying standard reserve percentages to aged account 




53







 




balances

, which is supported by relevant historical analysis and any other known information such as the current economic conditions that could drive losses

. At domestic resorts where marker play is significant, we apply standard reserve percentages to aged account balances under a specified dollar amount and specifically analyze the collectability of each account with a balance over the specified dollar amount, based on the age of the account, the customer’s 

current and expected future 

financial condition, collection history and

 current and expected future economic conditions

. MGM China specifically analyzes the collectability of casino receivables on an individual basis taking into account the age of the account, the financial condition and the collection history of the gaming promoter or casino customer. 




 




In addition to enforceability issues, the collectability of unpaid markers given by foreign customers at our domestic resorts is affected by a number of factors, including changes in currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the customers’ home countries. Because individual customer account balances can be significant, the loss reserve and the provision can change significantly between periods, as information about a certain customer becomes known or as changes in a region’s economy occur. 




 




The following table shows key statistics related to our casino receivables, net of discounts: 




 
















 







 







December 31,







 













 







 







2020







 







 







2019







 













 







 







(In thousands)







 













Casino receivables







 







$







260,998







 







 







$







394,163







 













Loss reserve for casino accounts receivable







 







 







107,723







 







 







 







88,338







 













Loss reserve as a percentage of casino accounts receivable







 







 







41







%







 







 







22







%










 




Approximately $54 million and $77 million of casino receivables and $18 million and $16 million of the loss reserve for casino accounts receivable relate to MGM China at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The loss reserve as a percentage of casino accounts receivable increased in the current year due to an increase in the age of outstanding account balances at our domestic resorts and MGM China primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic. At December 31, 2020, a 100 basis-point change in the loss reserve as a percentage of casino accounts receivable would change income before income taxes by $3 million.




 




Fixed Asset Capitalization and Depreciation Policies 




 




Property and equipment are stated at cost. A significant amount of our property and equipment was acquired through business combinations and was therefore recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Maintenance and repairs that neither materially add to the value of the property nor appreciably prolong its life are charged to expense as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. When we construct assets, we capitalize direct costs of the project, including fees paid to architects and contractors, property taxes, and certain costs of our design and construction subsidiaries. In addition, interest cost associated with major development and construction projects is capitalized as part of the cost of the project. Interest is typically capitalized on amounts expended on the project using the weighted average cost of our outstanding borrowings. Capitalization of interest starts when construction activities begin and ceases when construction is substantially complete, or development activity is suspended for more than a brief period. 




 




We must make estimates and assumptions when accounting for capital expenditures. Whether an expenditure is considered a maintenance expense, or a capital asset is a matter of judgment. When constructing or purchasing assets, we must determine whether existing assets are being replaced or otherwise impaired, which also may be a matter of judgment. In addition, our depreciation expense is highly dependent on the assumptions we make about our assets’ estimated useful lives. We determine the estimated useful lives based on our experience with similar assets, engineering studies, and our estimate of the usage of the asset. Whenever events or circumstances occur which change the estimated useful life of an asset, we account for the change prospectively. 




 




Impairment of Long-lived Assets, Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets

 




 




We evaluate our property and equipment and other long-lived assets for impairment based on our classification as held for sale or to be held and used. Several criteria must be met before an asset is classified as held for sale, including that management with the appropriate authority commits to a plan to sell the asset at a reasonable price in relation to its fair value and is actively seeking a buyer. For assets classified as held for sale, we recognize the asset at the lower of carrying value or fair market value less costs of disposal, as estimated based on comparable asset sales, offers received, or a discounted cash flow model. For assets to be held and used, we review for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. We then compare the estimated future cash flows of the asset, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying value of the asset. If the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment is indicated. If the undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is recorded based on the fair value of the asset. For operating assets, fair value is typically measured using a discounted cash flow model whereby future cash flows are discounted using a weighted average cost of capital, developed using a standard capital asset pricing model, based on guideline 




54







 




companies in our industry. If an asset is still under development, future cash flows include remaining construction costs. All recognized impairment losses, whether for assets to be held for sale or assets to be held and used, are recorded as operating expenses.




 




There are several estimates, assumptions and decisions in measuring impairments of long-lived assets. First, management must determine the usage of the asset. To the extent management decides that an asset will be sold, it is more likely that an impairment may be recognized. Assets must be tested at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows exist. This means that some assets must be grouped, and management has some discretion in the grouping of assets. Future cash flow estimates are, by their nature, subjective and actual results may differ materially from our estimates. 




 




On a quarterly basis, we review our major long-lived assets to determine if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate a potential impairment. Potential factors which could trigger an impairment include underperformance compared to historical or projected operating results, negative industry or economic factors, significant changes to our operating environment, or changes in intended use of the asset group. We estimate future cash flows using our internal budgets and probability weight cash flows in certain circumstances to consider alternative outcomes associated with recoverability of the asset group, including potential sale. Historically, undiscounted cash flows of our significant operating asset groups have exceeded their carrying values by a substantial margin. During 2019, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge relating to the carrying value of Circus Circus Las Vegas and adjacent land. Refer to Note 16 for further discussion.




 




We review indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually and between annual test dates in certain circumstances. We perform our annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist primarily of license rights and trademarks. For our 2020 annual impairment tests, we utilized the option to perform a qualitative (“step zero”) analysis for certain of our indefinite-lived intangibles and concluded it was more likely than not that the fair values of such intangibles exceeded their carrying values by a substantial margin. We elected to perform a quantitative analysis for the Northfield gaming license in 2020 primarily using the discounted cash flow approach, for which the fair value exceeded its carrying value by 14%. As discussed below, management makes significant judgments and estimates as part of these analyses. If certain future operating results do not meet current expectations it could cause carrying values of the intangibles to exceed their fair values in future periods, potentially resulting in an impairment charge. 




 




We review goodwill at least annually and between annual test dates in certain circumstances. None of our reporting units incurred any goodwill impairment charges in 2020. For our 2020 annual impairment tests, we utilized the option to perform a step zero analysis for certain of our reporting units and concluded it was more likely than not that the fair values of such reporting units exceeded their carrying values by a substantial margin. For reporting units for which we elected to perform a quantitative analysis, the fair value of such reporting units exceeded their carrying value by a substantial margin. As discussed below, management makes significant judgments and estimates as part of these analyses. If future operating results of our reporting units do not meet current expectations it could cause carrying values of our reporting units to exceed their fair values in future periods, potentially resulting in a goodwill impairment charge.




 




There are several estimates inherent in evaluating these assets for impairment. In particular, future cash flow estimates are, by their nature, subjective and actual results may differ materially from our estimates. In addition, the determination of multiples, capitalization rates and the discount rates used in the impairment tests are highly judgmental and dependent in large part on expectations of future market conditions. 




 




See Note 2 and Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets.




 




Impairment of Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates

 




 




See Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for discussion of our evaluation of other-than-temporary impairment of investments in unconsolidated affiliates. During 2020, we recorded $64 million in other-than-temporary impairment charges on an equity method investment. Refer to Note 6 for further discussion. Our investments in unconsolidated affiliates had no material impairments in 2019 or 2018.




 




Income Taxes

 




 




We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various state and local jurisdictions, and foreign jurisdictions, although the income taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions are not material.   




 




 We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities related to net operating losses, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences with future tax consequences.  We reduce the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not such assets will not be realized.  Accordingly, the need to establish valuation allowances for deferred tax assets is assessed at each reporting period based on such "more-likely-than-not" realization threshold. This assessment considers, among other 




55







 




matters, the nature, frequency and severity of current and cumulative losses, forecasts of future profitability, the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, the duration of statutory carryforward periods, and tax planning strategies.




 




We recorded a valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets of our domestic jurisdictions of $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets of foreign jurisdictions of $156 million and $104 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We reassess the realization of deferred tax assets each reporting period.  In the event we were to determine that it is more likely than not that we will be unable to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, we would increase the valuation allowance and recognize a corresponding charge to earnings or other comprehensive income in the period in which we make such a determination. Likewise, if we later determine that we are more likely than not to realize the deferred tax assets, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously recognized valuation allowance. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in the jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located.




 




Furthermore, we are subject to routine corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. We believe that positions taken on our tax returns are fully supported, but tax authorities may challenge these positions, which may not be fully sustained on examination by the relevant tax authorities. Accordingly, our income tax provision includes amounts intended to satisfy assessments that may result from these challenges. Determining the income tax provision for these potential assessments and recording the related effects requires management judgments and estimates. The amounts ultimately paid on resolution of an audit could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision and, therefore, could have a material impact on our income tax provision, net income and cash flows.




 




Refer to Note 10 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion relating to income taxes.







56







 


