>Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

39

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

41

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial

Disclosure

89

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

89

Item 9B.

Other Information

89

PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

90

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

90

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related

Stockholder Matters

91

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

91

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

91

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

92

Item 16.

Form 10-K Summary

98

Signatures

99

Table of Contents

PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Introduction

The Sherwin-Williams Company, founded in 1866 and incorporated in Ohio in 1884, is engaged in the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of paint, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers primarily in North and South America with additional operations in the Caribbean region, Europe, Asia and Australia. Our principal executive offices are located at 101 West Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115-1075, telephone (216) 566-2000. As used in this report, the terms “Sherwin-Williams,” “Company,” “we” and “our” mean The Sherwin-Williams Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise.

Available Information

We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may access these documents on our Investor Relations website, investors.sherwin-williams.com.

We also make available free of charge on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Director Independence Standards, our Code of Conduct and the charters of our Audit Committee, our Compensation and Management Development Committee and our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. You may access these documents on our Investor Relations website, investors.sherwin-williams.com.

Basis of Reportable Segments

The Company reports its segment information in the same way that management internally organizes its business for assessing performance and making decisions regarding allocation of resources in accordance with the Segment Reporting Topic of the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). The Company has three reportable operating segments: The Americas Group, Consumer Brands Group and Performance Coatings Group (individually, a “Reportable Segment” and collectively, the “Reportable Segments”). Factors considered in determining the three Reportable Segments of the Company include the nature of business activities, the management structure directly accountable to the Company’s chief operating decision maker (CODM) for operating and administrative activities, availability of discrete financial information and information presented to the Board of Directors. The Company reports all other business activities and immaterial operating segments that are not reportable in the Administrative segment. For more information about the Reportable Segments, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

The Company’s CODM has been identified as the Chief Executive Officer because he has final authority over performance assessment and resource allocation decisions. Because of the diverse operations of the Company, the CODM regularly receives discrete financial information about each Reportable Segment as well as a significant amount of additional financial information about certain divisions, business units or subsidiaries of the Company. The CODM uses all such financial information for performance assessment and resource allocation decisions. The CODM evaluates the performance of and allocates resources to the Reportable Segments based on segment profit or loss and cash generated from operations. The accounting policies of the Reportable Segments are the same as those described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

The Americas Group

The Americas Group consisted of 4,774 company-operated specialty paint stores in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean region at December 31, 2020. Each store in this segment is engaged in servicing the needs of architectural and industrial paint contractors and do-it-yourself homeowners. These stores market and sell Sherwin-Williams

®

 and other controlled brand architectural paint and coatings, protective and marine products, OEM product finishes and related products. The majority of these products are produced by manufacturing facilities in the Consumer Brands Group. In addition, each store sells select purchased associated products. In addition to our stores in the Latin America region, The Americas Group meets regional customer demands through developing, licensing, manufacturing, distributing and selling a variety of architectural paints, coatings and related products in North and South America. The loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the business of this segment. At December 31, 2020, The Americas Group consisted of operations from subsidiaries in 10 foreign countries. The CODM uses discrete financial information about The Americas Group, supplemented with information by geographic region, product type and customer type, to assess performance of and allocate resources to The Americas Group as a whole. In accordance with ASC 280-10-50-9, The Americas Group as a whole is considered the operating segment, and because it meets the criteria in ASC 280-10-50-10, it is also considered a Reportable Segment.

1

Table of Contents

Consumer Brands Group

The Consumer Brands Group supplies a broad portfolio of branded and private-label architectural paint, stains, varnishes, industrial products, wood finishes products, wood preservatives, applicators, corrosion inhibitors, aerosols, caulks and adhesives to retailers and distributors throughout North America, as well as in Australia, New Zealand, China and Europe. The Consumer Brands Group also supports the Company’s other businesses around the world with new product research and development, manufacturing, distribution and logistics. Approximately 55% of the total sales of the Consumer Brands Group in 2020 were intersegment transfers of products primarily sold through The Americas Group. At December 31, 2020, the Consumer Brands Group consisted of operations in the United States and subsidiaries in 6 foreign countries. Sales and marketing of certain controlled brand and private-label products is performed by a direct sales staff. The products distributed through third-party customers are intended for resale to the ultimate end-user of the product. The Consumer Brands Group had sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a significant portion of the sales and related profitability of the segment. This segment incurred most of the Company’s capital expenditures related to ongoing environmental compliance measures at sites currently in operation. The CODM uses discrete financial information about the Consumer Brands Group, supplemented with information by product type and customer type, to assess performance of and allocate resources to the Consumer Brands Group as a whole. In accordance with ASC 280-10-50-9, the Consumer Brands Group as a whole is considered the operating segment, and because it meets the criteria in ASC 280-10-50-10, it is also considered a Reportable Segment.

Performance Coatings Group

The Performance Coatings Group develops and sells industrial coatings for wood finishing and general industrial (metal and plastic) applications, automotive refinish, protective and marine coatings, coil coatings, packaging coatings and performance-based resins and colorants worldwide. This segment licenses certain technology and trade names worldwide. Sherwin-Williams

®

 and other controlled brand products are distributed through The Americas Group and this segment’s 282 company-operated branches and by a direct sales staff and outside sales representatives to retailers, dealers, jobbers, licensees and other third-party distributors. The Performance Coatings Group had sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a significant portion of the sales of the segment. However, the loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the overall profitability of the segment. At December 31, 2020, the Performance Coatings Group consisted of operations in the United States and subsidiaries in 44 foreign countries. The CODM uses discrete financial information about the Performance Coatings Group, supplemented with information about geographic divisions, business units and subsidiaries, to assess performance of and allocate resources to the Performance Coatings Group as a whole. In accordance with ASC 280-10-50-9, the Performance Coatings Group as a whole is considered the operating segment, and because it meets the criteria in ASC 280-10-50-10, it is also considered a Reportable Segment. 

Administrative Segment

The Administrative segment includes the administrative expenses of the Company’s corporate headquarters site. Also included in the Administrative segment is interest expense, interest and investment income, certain expenses related to closed facilities and environmental-related matters, and other expenses which are not directly associated with the Reportable Segments. The Administrative segment does not include any significant foreign operations. Also included in the Administrative segment is a real estate management unit that is responsible for the ownership, management, and leasing of non-retail properties held primarily for use by the Company, including the Company’s headquarters site, and disposal of idle facilities. Sales of this segment represent external leasing revenue of excess headquarters space or leasing of facilities no longer used by the Company in its primary businesses. Material gains and losses from the sale of property are infrequent and not a significant operating factor in determining the performance of the Administrative segment.

Raw Materials and Products Purchased for Resale

We believe we generally have adequate sources of raw materials and fuel supplies used in our business. There are sufficient suppliers of each product purchased for resale that none of the Reportable Segments anticipate any significant sourcing problems during 2021. See Item 1A Risk Factors for more information regarding cost and sourcing of raw materials.

Seasonality

The majority of the sales for the Reportable Segments traditionally occur during the second and third quarters. However, periods of economic downturn can alter these seasonal patterns. There is no significant seasonality in sales for the Administrative segment. 

2

Table of Contents

Working Capital

In order to meet increased demand during the second and third quarters, the Company usually builds its inventories during the first quarter. Working capital items (inventories and accounts receivable) are generally financed through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of the Company’s liquidity and capital resources, see the “Financial Condition, Liquidity and Cash Flow” section in Item 7. 

Trademarks and Trade Names

Customer recognition of trademarks and trade names owned or licensed by the Company collectively contribute significantly to our sales. The major trademarks and trade names used by each of the Reportable Segments are set forth below.

•

The Americas Group:

 Sherwin-Williams®, Cashmere®, Colorgin®, Duration®, Emerald®, Harmony®, Kem Tone®, Loxon®, Metalatex®, Novacor®, Paint Shield®, ProClassic®, ProIndustrial™, ProMar®, SuperDeck®, SuperPaint®, Woodscapes® 

•

Consumer Brands Group: 

Cabot®, Duckback®, Dupli-Color®, Dutch Boy®, Geocel®, HGTV HOME® by Sherwin-Williams, Huarun®, Krylon®, Minwax®, Pratt & Lambert®, Purdy®, Ronseal®, Solver®, Thompson’s® WaterSeal®, Valspar®, Wattyl®, White Lightning® 

•

Performance Coatings Group: 

Sherwin-Williams®, Acrolon®, AcromaPro®, ATX®, AWX Performance Plus™, DeBeer®, Dimension®, Duraspar®, EcoDex®, Envirolastic®, Euronavy®, Excelo®, EzDex®, Fastline®, Firetex®, Fluropon®, Heat-Flex®, House of Kolor®, Huarun®, Kem Aqua®, Lazzuril®, Macropoxy®, Martin Senour®, ML Campbell®, PermaClad®, Planet Color®, Polane®, Powdura®, Sayerlack®, Sher-Wood®, Sumaré®, Ultra™, ValPure® , Valspar®

Patents

Although patents and licenses are not of material importance to our business as a whole or any segment, The Americas Group and the Performance Coatings Group derive a portion of their income from the licensing of technology, trademarks and trade names to foreign companies.

Backlog and Productive Capacity

Backlog orders are not significant in the business of any Reportable Segment since there is normally a short period of time between the placing of an order and shipment. We believe that sufficient productive capacity currently exists to fulfill our needs for paint, coatings and related products through 2021.

Competition

We experience competition from many local, regional, national and international competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. We are a leading manufacturer and retailer of paint, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers, however, our competitive position varies for our different products and markets.

In The Americas Group, competitors include other paint and wallpaper stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets. Product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, service and price determine the competitive advantage for this segment.

In the Consumer Brands Group, domestic and foreign competitors include manufacturers and distributors of branded and private-label paint and coatings products. Technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for this segment.

The Performance Coatings Group has numerous competitors in its domestic and foreign markets with broad product offerings and several others with niche products. Key competitive factors for this segment include technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price.

The Administrative segment has many competitors consisting of other real estate owners, developers and managers in areas in which this segment owns property. The main competitive factors are the availability of property and price.

3

Table of Contents

Human Capital

We believe our people are central to the foundation and future of the Company’s success. Our culture and commitment to our people are important factors in attracting, retaining, developing and progressing qualified employees. At December 31, 2020, we employed 61,031 people worldwide, of which 78% were in the United States and 22% were in other global regions.

Culture and Engagement

. 

The Company’s seven guiding values are the foundation of our culture of excellence—integrity, people, service, quality, performance, innovation and growth. We value and support our people 

through, among other initiatives, our talent management, health and safety, employment practices and total rewards programs. We are committed to fostering a culture of inclusion where differences are welcomed, appreciated and celebrated to positively impact our people and business, and where our people are engaged and encouraged to support the communities in which they live and work.

Talent Management.

 We are committed to providing our people with opportunities to learn, grow and be recognized for their achievements. Through our integrated talent management strategy, we strive to attract, retain, develop and progress a workforce that embraces our culture of inclusion and reflects our diversity efforts. The Company’s early talent programs, including our management trainee program, play a critical role in attracting and progressing a diverse pipeline of talent. We are also committed to investing in our people by providing learning and employee networking opportunities to drive retention, progression and engagement and help them excel in their current and future roles. 

Health and Safety.

 We are committed to providing safe and healthy working environments and taking reasonable preventative measures to protect the health and safety of our employees and customers. We drive Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) excellence across the Company and strive for incident-free workplaces — continuously assessing and developing the programs that are in place to help keep our employees, customers and communities safe. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have implemented significant changes to our business designed to protect the health and well-being of our employees and customers and to support appropriate physical distancing and other health and safety protocols. These efforts continue to include: remote, alternate and flexible work arrangements where possible, such as split shifts at facilities and remote work options for non-essential on-site functions; enhanced cleaning and sanitation procedures; domestic and international travel restrictions; return to work and visitor screening protocols; and the postponement or cancellation of hosting or attending large events.

Employment Practices and Total Rewards.

 We are committed to the fair, consistent and equitable treatment of our employees in relation to working conditions, wages, benefits, policies and procedures. To this end, the Company’s policies and programs are designed to respond to the needs of our employees in a manner that provides a safe, professional, efficient and rewarding workplace. Our total rewards programs are designed to offer competitive compensation, comprehensive benefits and other programs to support employees’ growth, both personally and professionally, and the diverse needs and well-being of our employees worldwide. During 2020, we enhanced certain of the Company’s benefits to support the health and well-being of our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, including our tele-health, paid sick leave, family leave and voluntary leave of absence policies and programs.  

For additional information regarding our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, see the information included within Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 

Environmental Compliance

For additional information regarding environmental-related matters, see Notes 1, 9 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

4

Table of Contents

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Certain statements contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Letter to Shareholders” and elsewhere in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements are based upon management’s current expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events and conditions and may discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance (including sales and earnings), expected growth, future business plans and the costs and potential liability for environmental-related matters and the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation. Any statement that is not historical in nature is a forward-looking statement and may be identified by the use of words and phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “project,” “could,” “plan,” “goal,” “potential,” “seek,” “intend” or “anticipate” or the negative thereof or comparable terminology.

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and from our historical results and experience. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include such things as:

•

general business conditions, strengths of retail and manufacturing economies and growth in the coatings industry;

•

changes in general domestic and international economic conditions such as inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, and changing government policies, laws and regulations;

•

changes in raw material and energy supplies and pricing; 

•

changes in our relationships with customers and suppliers;

•

our ability to successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations, as well as the performance of the businesses acquired;

•

competitive factors, including pricing pressures and product innovation and quality;

•

our ability to attain cost savings from productivity initiatives;

•

risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in Asia, Europe, South America and other foreign markets, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest and other external economic and political factors;

•

the achievement of growth in foreign markets, such as Asia, Europe and South America;

•

increasingly stringent domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including those affecting health, safety and the environment; 

•

inherent uncertainties involved in assessing our potential liability for environmental-related activities;

•

other changes in governmental policies, laws and regulations, including changes in tariff policies, as well as changes in accounting policies and standards and taxation requirements (such as new tax laws and new or revised tax law interpretations);

•

the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation and other claims, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, and the effect of any legislation and administrative regulations relating thereto;

•

adverse weather conditions or impacts of climate change, natural disasters and public health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic; and

•

the duration, severity and scope of the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions implemented by international, federal, state and local public health and governmental authorities to contain and combat the outbreak and spread of COVID-19, which may exacerbate one or more of the aforementioned and/or other risks, uncertainties and factors more fully described in the Company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Readers are cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results and that the above list should not be considered to be a complete list. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.

5

Table of Contents

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS

The risks described below and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

ECONOMIC AND STRATEGIC RISKS

The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, and the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition in the future remains uncertain.

Beginning in early 2020, extraordinary and wide-ranging actions have been taken by international, federal, state, and local public health and governmental authorities to contain and combat the outbreak and spread of a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19). These actions have included, and continue to include, quarantines, physical distancing, face coverings, restrictions on public gatherings and other health and safety protocols, stay-at-home orders, travel restrictions, mandatory business closures, and other mandates that have substantially restricted individuals’ daily activities and curtailed or ceased many businesses’ normal operations.

In response to the pandemic and these actions, we began implementing changes in our business in March 2020 designed to protect the health and well-being of our employees and customers and to support appropriate physical distancing and other health and safety protocols. In late March 2020, we temporarily reduced store hours and closed our sales floors in our company-operated paint stores to the general public, requiring our customers to order product online or via phone and to access their products via curbside pickup or delivery. We implemented remote, alternate and flexible work arrangements where possible, including implementing split shifts at facilities and remote work options for non-essential on-site functions, enhanced cleaning and sanitation procedures, transitioned some of our facilities to manufacture hand sanitizer for use in our facilities and surrounding communities, implemented domestic and international travel restrictions, implemented return to work and visitor screening protocols, and postponed or canceled hosting or attending large events. We also enhanced certain employee benefits, such as tele-health, paid sick leave, family leave and voluntary leave of absence policies and programs. In May 2020, we began the process of reinstituting regular store hours and re-opening the sales floors in our stores with appropriate health and safety protocols, which resulted in all of our stores in the U.S. and Canada being fully re-opened. We also began the process of returning some of our employees who work in office environments to the office, although many employees continue to work remotely. The necessary and appropriate measures we have taken have resulted in additional costs, including for COVID-related leave and related healthcare costs in support of our employees and their families, and have adversely impacted our business and financial performance. We also face operational risks in connection with remote work arrangements, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks and increased vulnerability to damage or interruption resulting from, among other causes, cyber attacks, security breaches, phishing, malware, viruses, ransomware, power outages or system failures. As our response to the pandemic continues and evolves, we expect to incur additional costs and are likely to experience further adverse impacts to our business, each of which may be significant.

The COVID-19 outbreak has surfaced in all regions around the world and has severely impacted the global economy, disrupted consumer spending and global supply chains, and created significant volatility and disruption of financial markets, all of which are expected to continue, and all of which have adversely affected, and are expected to continue to adversely affect, our business. We continue to experience occasional, temporary disruptions and closures of some of our facilities due to COVID-19. We also continue to see shifts in consumer behaviors and preferences, as well as impacts in the demand for some of our products. Since the first quarter of 2020, we have experienced an unprecedented surge in do-it-yourself (DIY) demand due to some of our customers spending more time at home and focusing on home improvement projects. As a result, our architectural business was quick to recover from the onset of the pandemic, while many of our industrial businesses are recovering at a slower pace as commercial and other industrial projects are delayed. While we expect demand levels to return to more normalized levels eventually, our ability to predict and meet any future changes in the demand for our products due to the pandemic remains uncertain. Although the raw materials used in the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of our products are typically available from various sources in sufficient quantities, and although we have not experienced significant raw material shortages, delays or increased costs to date, COVID-19 may result in increased costs and unexpected shortages or delays in the delivery of some raw materials, each of which could be significant. We reduced spending in certain areas of our business, including through voluntary and involuntary leave programs and reductions in capital expenditures, temporarily suspending share repurchases and reducing discretionary spending, and we may need to take additional actions to reduce spending in the future.

While we are closely monitoring the impact of the pandemic on all aspects of our business, the extent of the impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity, and financial performance, as well as our ability to execute near-term and long-term business strategies and initiatives, will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments, which are highly uncertain and which we cannot predict or control, and some of which we are not currently aware, including, but not limited to: 

6

Table of Contents

(a) the duration, severity and scope of the pandemic, including additional waves, increases and spikes in the number of COVID-19 cases in certain areas; (b) rapidly-changing governmental and public health directives to contain and combat the outbreak, including the duration, degree and effectiveness of directives, as well as the easing, removal and potential reinstitution of directives; (c) the further development, availability, effectiveness and distribution of treatments and vaccines for COVID-19; (d) the extent and duration of the pandemic’s adverse and volatile effects on economic and social activity, consumer confidence, discretionary spending and preferences, labor and healthcare costs, and unemployment rates, any of which may reduce demand for some of our products and impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us; (e) our ability to sell, provide and meet the demand for our services and products, including as a result of potential reinstitution of temporarily-reduced store hours and sales floor closures in our stores and continued travel restrictions, mandatory business closures, and stay-at-home or similar orders; (f) any temporary reduction in our workforce, closures of our offices and facilities and our ability to adequately staff and maintain our operations, including as a result of employees or their family members testing positive for COVID-19; (g) the ability of our customers and suppliers to continue their operations, which could affect our ability to sell, provide and meet the demand for our services and products and result in terminations of contracts, losses of revenue and adverse effects to our supply chain; and (h) any impairment in value of our tangible or intangible assets which could be recorded as a result of weaker economic conditions. If the pandemic continues to create disruptions or turmoil in the credit or financial markets, or further impacts our credit ratings, it could adversely affect our ability to access capital on favorable terms and continue to meet our liquidity needs.

Given the inherent uncertainty surrounding COVID-19, we expect the pandemic will continue to create challenging operating environments and have an adverse impact on our business in the near term. If these conditions persist for a prolonged period, the COVID-19 pandemic, including any of the above factors and others that are currently unknown, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity, or financial condition.

Adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

Our business is sensitive to global and regional business and economic conditions. Adverse changes in such conditions in the United States and worldwide, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic, may reduce the demand for some of our products, adversely impact our ability to predict and meet any future changes in the demand for our products, and impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. Higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, business disruptions due to cybersecurity incidents, terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, public health crises (including the COVID-19 pandemic), impacts of climate change, fires or other natural disasters, and other economic factors could also adversely affect demand for some of our products, our ability to predict and meet any future changes in the demand for our products, the availability, delivery or cost of raw materials, our ability to adequately staff and maintain operations at affected facilities and our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition and that of our customers, vendors and suppliers.

Protracted duration of economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may depress the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition.

Portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing, manufacturing and oil production, refining, storage and transportation. Our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. During economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease, and the recovery of these segments may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. This decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition.

Although interest rates remain low by historical standards, any increase may adversely affect the demand for new residential homes, existing home turnover and new non-residential construction. A worsening in these segments will reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow.

In the U.S. construction and housing segments, the recent demand for new construction has caused contractors to experience a shortage of skilled workers, resulting in project backlogs and an adverse effect on the growth rate of demand for our products. While we expect to see higher demand for our products as project backlogs are reduced in the future, this labor shortage may adversely impact our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition.

7

Table of Contents

Adverse weather conditions or impacts of climate change and natural disasters may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow.

Our business is seasonal in nature, with the second and third quarters typically generating a higher proportion of sales and earnings than other quarters. From time to time, adverse weather conditions or impacts of climate change and natural disasters have had or may have an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. Unusually cold and rainy weather could also have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. An adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow.

FINANCIAL RISKS

A weakening of global credit markets may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

A weakening of global credit markets may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, access to capital and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

We finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. Credit markets remain tight, and some customers who require financing for their businesses have not been able to obtain necessary financing. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

We generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. If any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, such inability could adversely impact our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition, including our ability to obtain funding for working capital needs and other general corporate purposes.

Although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. Our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. Downgrades in these ratings, including due to uncertainties regarding COVID-19, will increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. An inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

We have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. We periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such value may not be recoverable. An impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flow and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and change our estimates of future sales and cash flow, resulting in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.

We hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. A decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

We require a significant amount of cash to service the substantial amount of debt we have outstanding. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. We also depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. If we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our indebtedness.

At December 31, 2020, we had total debt of approximately $8.292 billion, which is a decrease of $393.1 million

 

since December 31, 2019. We have the ability under our existing credit facilities to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. Our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control, including public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and related impacts. We cannot guarantee our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures.

The degree to which we are currently leveraged could have important consequences for shareholders. For example, it could:

8

Table of Contents

•

require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;

•

increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions;

•

limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or

•

place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt.

Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us.

A significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. Our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. Further, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. Payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and business considerations. Our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. Even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. Finally, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us.

Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

Because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. Historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the Euro, the Chinese yuan, the Brazilian real, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the Mexican peso, the Australian dollar and the Argentine peso, each against the U.S. dollar. While we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

 

OPERATIONAL RISKS

Unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow.

We purchase raw materials (including titanium dioxide and petrochemical feedstock sources, such as propylene and ethylene) and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. Factors such as political instability, higher tariffs, impacts of climate change and adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and other natural disasters, or public health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic, could disrupt the availability of raw material and fuel supplies, adversely impact our ability to adequately staff and maintain operations at affected facilities and increase our costs. In addition, environmental and social regulations, including regulations related to climate change, may negatively impact us or our suppliers in terms of availability and cost of raw materials, as well as sources and supply of energy. Although raw materials and energy supplies (including oil and natural gas) are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers, may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to obtain these raw materials and energy from other sources or offset higher costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. In recent years, some raw material and energy prices have increased, particularly titanium dioxide and petrochemical feedstock sources, such as propylene and ethylene, as well as metal and plastic packaging. The cost of raw materials and energy has in the past experienced, and likely will in the future continue to experience, periods of volatility.

Although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow.

We have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution platform. During 2020, no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. However, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. Although our broad distribution channels help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow.

9

Table of Contents

Increased competition or failure to keep pace with developments in key competitive areas of our business may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance.

We face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. Some of our competitors are larger than us or operate more extensively in certain regions around the world and have greater financial or operational resources to compete. Other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. Technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are key competitive factors for our business. Competition in any of these areas, or failure to keep pace with developments in any of these areas, may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products.

Our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations.

We have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long-term growth strategy. The success of future acquisitions depends in large part on our ability to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired companies and manage challenges that may arise as a result of the acquisitions, particularly when the acquired businesses operate in new or foreign markets. In the event we do not successfully integrate such future acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected.

Risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in Asia, Europe, South America and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

Net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 19.5%, 20.6% and 23.0% of our total consolidated net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales outside of the United States make up a significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. Our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of domestic and international factors, including general economic conditions, political instability, inflation rates, recessions, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. In addition, public health crises (including the COVID-19 pandemic) in foreign jurisdictions may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect the availability and cost of raw materials. Our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to any of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.

In many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators, and an increase in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. Any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.

Policy changes affecting international trade could adversely impact the demand for our products and our competitive position.

Due to the international scope of our operations, changes in government policies on foreign trade and investment may affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries. Our business benefits from free trade agreements, which may include the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, and efforts to withdraw from, or substantially modify such agreements, in addition to the implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs, import or export licensing requirements, exchange controls or new barriers to entry, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flow and that of our customers, vendors and suppliers. 

Additionally, the results of the United Kingdom’s referendum on European Union membership, which resulted in the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union on January 31, 2020 (“Brexit”), caused significant volatility in global stock markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations and global economic uncertainty. The transition period post-Brexit expired on December 31, 2020, and the United Kingdom and European Union entered into a free trade agreement that now governs the United Kingdom’s relationship with the European Union. While the United Kingdom and European Union can generally continue to trade with each other without the imposition of tariffs for imports and exports, there are new customs requirements that require additional documentation and data, and there are also new controls on the movement and reporting of goods (including 

10

Table of Contents

chemicals). We do not know the extent to which Brexit and the free trade agreement will ultimately impact the business and regulatory environment in the United Kingdom, the rest of the European Union or other countries, although it is possible there will be tighter controls and administrative requirements for imports and exports between the United Kingdom and the European Union or other countries, as well as increased regulatory complexities. Any of these factors could adversely impact customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our results of operations.

Cybersecurity incidents and other disruptions to our information technology systems could interfere with our operations, result in the compromise or loss of critical and confidential information and severely harm our business.

We rely on information technology systems to conduct our business, including recording and processing transactions, manufacturing and selling our products, maintaining and growing our competitive position, and supporting and communicating with our employees, customers, suppliers and other vendors.   These information technology systems are important to many business-critical processes including, but not limited to, production planning, manufacturing, finance, company operations, sales and customer service. Some of these systems are maintained or operated by third party providers. Despite our efforts to prevent disruptions to these information technology systems, these systems may be affected by damage or interruption resulting from, among other causes, cyber attacks, security breaches, phishing, malware, viruses, ransomware, power outages or system failures. These risks could be magnified due to the increased reliance on information technology systems because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Disruptions to these systems may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

As part of our business, we collect and handle sensitive and confidential information about our business, customers, employees and suppliers. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those third-parties with which we do business, may be vulnerable to cyber attacks, security breaches, malware, viruses, ransomware, power outages, system failures, acts of vandalism or misconduct, human or technical errors or other similar events or disruptions. Any such event involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of information, whether impacting us or third-parties with which we do business, could result in losses, damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation, regulatory action and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We continue to mitigate these risks in a number of ways, including through additional investment, engagement of third-party experts and consultants, improving the security of our facilities and systems, providing training for employees, assessing the continued appropriateness of relevant insurance coverage and strengthening our controls to monitor and mitigate these threats. 

The domestic and international regulatory environment related to information security, collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous and complex, with new and rapidly changing requirements applicable to our business. Compliance with these requirements, including the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act and other international and domestic regulations, could result in additional costs and changes to our business practices.

Inability to protect or enforce our material trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business.

We have numerous patents, trade secrets, trademarks, trade names and know-how that are valuable to our business. Despite our efforts to protect such intellectual property and other proprietary information from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our trademarks or such other intellectual property and information without our authorization. Although we rely on the patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws of the United States and other countries to protect our intellectual property rights, the laws of some countries may not protect such rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, the failure of foreign countries to have laws to protect our intellectual property rights, or an inability to effectively enforce such rights in foreign countries could have an adverse effect on our business.

LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKS

We are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, for which compliance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.

We are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, U.S. and foreign export and trading laws, data privacy and security laws, and laws governing improper business practices. We are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. From time to time, our Company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages.

Although we believe we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means compliance risks will continue to exist. Investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. These investigations, 

11

Table of Contents

examinations and other proceedings could subject us to significant liability and require us to take significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.

We are subject to tax laws and regulations in the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions. We are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities and other regulators. In addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be additional examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded.

For non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and accrue for such loss contingencies as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency. In the event the loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. In those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. For income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. For those income tax positions where we determine there is not a greater than 50% likelihood such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. Subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial position for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid.

We discuss risks and uncertainties with regard to taxes in more detail in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

We are required to comply with numerous complex and increasingly stringent domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws, regulations and requirements, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.

Our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws, regulations and requirements, including related to climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic. These laws, regulations and requirements not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. We expect health, safety and environmental laws, regulations and requirements to be increasingly stringent upon our industry and us in the future. Our costs to comply with these laws, regulations and requirements may increase as they become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.

We are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued.

We are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. We accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. These estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. We continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. Due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse effect on our earnings. We discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail in the “Environmental Matters” and “Environmental-Related Liabilities” sections in Item 7 and in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

The nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition.

In the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including, but not limited to, litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental (including natural resource damages), intellectual property, 

12

Table of Contents

commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. These uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. In accordance with the Contingencies Topic of the ASC, we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In the event a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. In those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. 

Our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. Along with other companies, we are and have been a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. The plaintiffs’ claims have been based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. The plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. We have also been a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints that seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. We believe the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. We expect additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. The Company will continue to vigorously defend against any additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation that may be filed, including utilizing all avenues of appeal, if necessary.

Notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. Adverse court rulings or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. From time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful.

Due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. Further, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or resulting from any such legislation and regulations. Except with respect to the California public nuisance litigation, we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation because we do not believe it is probable that a loss has occurred, and we believe it is not possible to estimate the range of potential losses as there is no substantive information upon which an estimate could be based. Any potential liability that may result from any changes to legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. Due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. We discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

13

Table of Contents

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

We own our world headquarters located in Cleveland, Ohio, which includes the world headquarters for The Americas Group, Consumer Brands Group and Performance Coatings Group. Our principal manufacturing and distribution facilities are located as set forth below. We believe our manufacturing and distribution facilities are well-maintained and are suitable and adequate, with sufficient productive capacity, to meet our current needs.

Manufacturing

 (1)

Distribution 

(1)

Leased

Owned

Total

Leased

Owned

Total

Consumer Brands Group

Asia

1

6

7

1

4

5

Australia and New Zealand

3

3

2

3

5

Canada

 

3

3

1

1

Europe

3

3

1

3

4

Jamaica

1

1

1

1

Latin America

3

6

9

4

5

9

United States

6

29

35

11

1

12

Total

10

51

61

20

17

37

Performance Coatings Group

Africa

1

1

1

1

Asia

2

3

5

2

2

4

Europe

2

17

19

4

12

16

Latin America

1

4

5

1

6

7

United States

 

9

9

 

9

9

Total

5

34

39

7

30

37

(1)

     Certain geographic locations may contain both manufacturing and distribution facilities.

The operations of The Americas Group included 4,774 company-operated specialty paint stores, of which 217 were owned, in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Grenada, Trinidad and Tobago, St. Maarten, Jamaica, Curacao, Aruba, St. Lucia, Uruguay, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Mexico, Ecuador and Barbados at December 31, 2020. These paint stores are divided into six separate operating divisions that are responsible for the sale of predominantly architectural, protective and marine and related products through the paint stores located within their geographical region. At the end of 2020:

•

the Mid Western Division operated 1,136 paint stores primarily located in the midwestern and upper west coast states;

•

the Eastern Division operated 880 paint stores along the upper east coast and New England states;

•

the Canada Division operated 243 paint stores throughout Canada;

•

the Southeastern Division operated 1,163 paint stores principally covering the lower east and gulf coast states, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Grenada, Trinidad and Tobago, St. Maarten, Jamaica, Curacao, Aruba, St. Lucia and Barbados;

•

the South Western Division operated 1,054 paint stores in the central plains and the lower west coast states; and

•

the Latin America Division operated 298 paint stores in Uruguay, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Mexico and Ecuador.

During 2020, The Americas Group opened 16 net new stores, consisting of 56 new stores opened (53 in the United States, 1 in Canada, 1 in South America and 1 in Mexico) and 40 stores closed (10 in the United States, 6 in Canada, 17 in South America and 7 in Mexico).

14

Table of Contents

The Performance Coatings Group operated 221 branches in the United States, of which 8 were owned, at December 31, 2020. The Performance Coatings Group also operated 61 branches internationally, of which 7 were owned, at December 31, 2020, consisting of branches in Canada (21), Europe (16), Chile (11), Mexico (5), Peru (4), Vietnam (3) and Brazil (1). During 2020, this segment opened 1 new branch and did not close any branches for a net increase of 1 branch.

All real property within the Administrative segment is owned by us. For additional information regarding real property within the Administrative segment, see the information set forth in Item 1 of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

For additional information regarding real property leases, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

As previously disclosed in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2020, on July 1, 2020, the Company was notified by the California Department of Pesticide Regulation (“DPR”), alleging that the Company engaged in the delivery and/or sale of misbranded and/or unregistered pesticides in violation of the California Food and Agricultural Code. DPR offered to settle the allegations for approximately $134,000. Subsequently, the Company provided DPR with information in support of a reduction of the settlement amount.  On December 31, 2020, the Company and DPR reached a final settlement to resolve the matter, pursuant to which the Company agreed to pay a penalty of $90,401.

The Securities and Exchange Commission regulations require disclosure of certain environmental matters when a governmental authority is a party to the proceedings and such proceedings involve potential monetary sanctions that the Company reasonably believes will exceed a specified threshold. Pursuant to recent Securities and Exchange Commission amendments to this requirement that were not in effect prior to the filing of the Company’s most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the Company will be using a threshold of $1 million for such proceedings. Applying this threshold, there are no new environmental matters to disclose for this period.

For information regarding certain other environmental-related matters and other legal proceedings, see the information included under the captions titled “Other Long-Term Liabilities” and “Litigation” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1, 9, 10 and 18 to the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8. The information contained in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

15

Table of Contents

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following is the name, age and present position of each of our executive officers and all persons chosen to become executive officers, as well as all prior positions held by each person during the last five years. Executive officers are generally elected annually by the Board of Directors and hold office until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal.

 

Name

Age

Present Position

John G. Morikis

57

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Director

David B. Sewell

52

President and Chief Operating Officer

Allen J. Mistysyn

52

Senior Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Jane M. Cronin

53

Senior Vice President - Corporate Controller

Mary L. Garceau

48

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Thomas P. Gilligan

60

Senior Vice President - Human Resources

James R. Jaye

54

Senior Vice President - Investor Relations and Corporate Communications

Bryan J. Young

45

Vice President - Corporate Strategy and Development

Justin T. Binns

45

President, Performance Coatings Group

Peter J. Ippolito

56

President, The Americas Group

Brian E. Padden

49

President, Consumer Brands Group

Joseph F. Sladek

50

President & General Manager, Global Supply Chain Division, Consumer Brands Group

Mr. Morikis has served as Chairman since January 2017 and Chief Executive Officer since January 2016. Mr. Morikis served as President from October 2006 to March 2019 and Chief Operating Officer from October 2006 to January 2016. Mr. Morikis has served as a Director since October 2015 and has been employed with the Company since December 1984.  

Mr. Sewell has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since March 2019. Mr. Sewell served as President, Performance Coatings Group from August 2014 to March 2019. Mr. Sewell has been employed with the Company since February 2007.  

Mr. Mistysyn has served as Senior Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer since January 2017. Mr. Mistysyn served as Senior Vice President - Finance from October 2016 to January 2017 and Senior Vice President - Corporate Controller from October 2014 to October 2016. Mr. Mistysyn has been employed with the Company since June 1990.

Ms. Cronin has served as Senior Vice President - Corporate Controller since October 2016. Ms. Cronin served as Vice President  - Corporate Audit and Loss Prevention from September 2013 to October 2016. Ms. Cronin has been employed with the Company since September 1989.

Ms. Garceau has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since August 2017. Ms. Garceau served as Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from June 2017 to August 2017, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from April 2017 to June 2017 and Associate General Counsel from February 2014 to April 2017. Ms. Garceau has been employed with the Company since February 2014.

Mr. Gilligan has served as Senior Vice President - Human Resources since January 2016. Mr. Gilligan served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources, The Americas Group from August 2014 to January 2016. Mr. Gilligan has been employed with the Company since October 1983.

Mr. Jaye has served as Senior Vice President - Investor Relations and Corporate Communications since June 2019. Mr. Jaye served as Vice President - Investor Relations from October 2017 to June 2019. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Jaye served as Senior Director, Communications and Investor Relations at Nordson Corporation, manufacturer of dispensing products and systems, from October 2007 to October 2017. Mr. Jaye has been employed with the Company since October 2017.

Mr. Young has served as Vice President – Corporate Strategy and Development since June 2017. Prior to joining the Company in connection with the acquisition of The Valspar Corporation, Mr. Young served as Vice President, Corporate Development of Valspar from October 2015 to June 2017. Mr. Young has been employed with the Company since June 2017. Mr. Young was named Senior Vice President – Corporate Strategy and Development effective March 1, 2021 and will become an executive officer at that time.

16

Table of Contents

Mr. Binns has served as President, Performance Coatings Group since November 2020. Mr. Binns served as President & General Manager, Automotive Finishes Division, Performance Coatings Group from July 2018 to November 2020, President & General Manager, Eastern Division, The Americas Group from October 2016 to July 2018 and Vice President of Sales, The Americas Group from July 2014 to October 2016. Mr. Binns has been employed with the Company since January 2001.

Mr. Ippolito has served as President, The Americas Group since January 2018. Mr. Ippolito served as President & General Manager, Mid Western Division, The Americas Group from November 2010 to January 2018. Mr. Ippolito has been employed with the Company since May 1986.

Mr. Padden has served as President, Consumer Brands Group since November 2020. Mr. Padden served as Senior Vice President of Sales, International, Consumer Brands Group from November 2019 to November 2020, Senior Vice President & General Manager, EMEAI, Consumer Brands Group from January 2018 to November 2019 and Vice President of Sales, Retail National Accounts, Consumer Brands Group from January 2014 to December 2017. Mr. Padden has been employed with the Company since January 1996.

Mr. Sladek has served as President & General Manager, Global Supply Chain Division, Consumer Brands Group since January 2021. Mr. Sladek served within the Global Supply Chain Division, Consumer Brands Group as Senior Vice President, Global Operations & Engineering from August 2020 to January 2021, Senior Vice President, International & Industrial Operations from April 2019 to August 2020, Vice President, Excellence Initiatives from March 2017 to March 2019 and Vice President, Engineering & Manufacturing Quality from June 2014 to March 2017. Mr. Sladek has been employed with the Company since May 2007.

17

Table of Contents

PART II

 

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and traded under the symbol SHW. The number of shareholders of record at January 31, 2021 was 5,431. The information regarding securities authorized for issuance under the Company’s equity compensation plans is set forth in our Proxy Statement under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” and is incorporated by reference into Part III of this report. 

 

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s purchases of common stock during the fourth quarter of 2020.

 

Period

Total

Number of

Shares

Purchased

Average Price

Paid per

Share

Total Number

of Shares

Purchased as

Part of a

Publicly

Announced Plan

Maximum Number

of Shares

that May

Yet Be

Purchased Under

the Plan

October 1 – October 31

Share repurchase program 

(1)

99,908 

$

675.47 

99,908 

6,050,092 

Employee transactions 

(2)

N/A

November 1 – November 30

Share repurchase program 

(1)

975,092 

$

721.52 

975,092 

5,075,000 

Employee transactions 

(2)

527 

$

731.73 

N/A

Shares sold 

(3)

(100,000)

$

705.65 

N/A

December 1 – December 31

Share repurchase program 

(1)

525,000 

$

724.82 

525,000 

4,550,000 

Employee transactions 

(2)

107 

$

724.40 

N/A

Shares sold 

(3)

(75,000)

$

725.07 

N/A

Total

Share repurchase program 

(1)

1,600,000 

$

719.73 

1,600,000 

4,550,000 

Employee transactions 

(2)

634 

$

730.49 

N/A

Shares sold 

(3)

(175,000)

$

713.97 

N/A

(1)

Shares were purchased through the Company’s publicly announced share repurchase program. The Company had remaining authorization at December 31, 2020 to purchase 4,550,000 shares. On February 17, 2021, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to purchase an additional 15,000,000 shares of the Company’s stock for treasury purposes. There is no expiration date specified for the program.

(2)

All shares were delivered to satisfy the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligations by employees who exercised stock options or had shares of restricted stock vest.

(3)

In 2019, 300,000 shares were transferred from the Company’s terminated domestic defined benefit plan surplus assets to a suspense account held within a trust for the qualified replacement plan. In accordance with ASC 715, the transferred shares are treated as treasury stock. In the three months ended December 31, 2020, 175,000 of the shares were sold.

18

Table of Contents

Comparison of Cumulative Total Return

The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Sherwin-Williams common stock with the cumulative five-year total return of the companies listed on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the peer groups of companies selected on a line-of-business basis. For 2020, the Company revised its 2019 self-selected peer group to remove USG Corporation (as a result of its acquisition in 2019) and add Axalta Coating Systems Ltd. The cumulative five-year total return assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2015 in Sherwin-Williams common stock, the S&P 500 and the 2019 and 2020 peer groups. The cumulative five-year total return, including reinvestment of dividends, represents the cumulative value through December 31, 2020.

2020 peer group of companies comprised of the following: Akzo Nobel N.V., Axalta Coating Systems Ltd., BASF SE, Genuine Parts Company, H.B. Fuller Company, The Home Depot, Inc., Lowe’s Companies, Inc., Masco Corporation, Newell Brands Inc., PPG Industries, Inc., RPM International Inc., and Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. 

2019 peer group of companies comprised of the following: Akzo Nobel N.V., BASF SE, Genuine Parts Company, H.B. Fuller Company, The Home Depot, Inc., Lowe’s Companies, Inc., Masco Corporation, Newell Brands Inc., PPG Industries, Inc., RPM International Inc., Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. and USG Corporation (included through April 2019 when it was acquired by Gebr. Knauf KG).

19

Table of Contents

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

(millions of dollars, except per common share data)

2020

2019

2018

2017 

(1)

2016

Operations

Net sales 

$

18,361.7

 

$

17,900.8 

$

17,534.5 

$

14,983.8 

$

11,855.6 

Cost of goods sold

9,679.1

 

9,864.7 

10,115.9 

8,265.0 

5,934.3 

Selling, general and administrative expenses

5,477.9

 

5,274.9 

5,033.8 

4,797.6 

4,140.3 

Amortization

313.4

 

312.8 

318.1 

206.8 

25.4 

Interest expense

340.4

 

349.3 

366.7 

263.5 

154.1 

Income before income taxes 

(2)

2,519.2

 

1,981.8 

1,359.7 

1,469.3 

1,595.2 

Net income 

(3)

2,030.4

 

1,541.3 

1,108.7 

1,769.5 

1,132.7 

Financial Position

Accounts receivable - net

$

2,078.1

 

$

2,088.9 

$

2,018.8 

$

2,104.6 

$

1,231.0 

Inventories 

1,804.1

 

1,889.6 

1,815.3 

1,742.5 

1,068.3 

Working capital - net 

(3.0)

109.8 

46.8 

419.8 

798.1 

Property, plant and equipment - net

1,834.5

 

1,835.2 

1,776.8 

1,877.1 

1,095.9 

Total assets 

(4)

20,401.6

 

20,496.2 

19,134.3 

19,899.5 

6,752.5 

Long-term debt

8,266.9

 

8,050.7 

8,708.1 

9,885.7 

1,211.3 

Total debt

8,292.1

 

8,685.2 

9,343.7 

10,520.6 

1,952.5 

Shareholders’ equity 

3,610.8

 

4,123.3 

3,730.7 

3,647.9 

1,878.4 

Per Share Information

Average shares outstanding - diluted (thousands)

91,943

 

93,447 

94,988 

94,927 

94,488 

Book value 

$

40.32

 

$

44.75 

$

40.07 

$

38.86 

$

20.20 

Net income - diluted 

(5)

22.08

 

16.49 

11.67 

18.64 

11.99 

Cash dividends

5.36

 

4.52 

3.44 

3.40 

3.36 

Financial Ratios

Return on sales

11.1

 

%

8.6 

%

6.3 

%

11.8 

%

9.6 

%

Asset turnover

0.9

 

x

0.9 

x

0.9 

x

0.8 

x

1.8 

x

Return on assets 

10.0

 

%

7.5 

%

5.8 

%

8.9 

%

16.8 

%

Return on equity

 (6)

49.2

 

%

41.3 

%

30.4 

%

94.2 

%

130.5 

%

Dividend payout ratio 

(7)

32.5

 

%

38.7 

%

18.5 

%

28.4 

%

30.1 

%

Total debt to capitalization

69.7

 

%

67.8 

%

71.5 

%

74.3 

%

51.0 

%

Current ratio

1.0

 

1.0 

1.0 

1.1 

1.3 

Interest coverage 

(8)

8.4

 

x

6.7 

x

4.7 

x

6.6 

x

11.4 

x

Net working capital to sales

—

 

%

0.6 

%

0.3 

%

2.8 

%

6.7 

%

Effective income tax rate 

(9)

19.4

 

%

22.2 

%

18.5 

%

25.1 

%

29.0 

%

20

Table of Contents

General

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 

(10)

$

3,441.0

 

$

2,906.0 

$

2,322.7 

$

2,224.6 

$

1,946.8 

Capital expenditures

303.8

 

328.9 

251.0 

222.8 

239.0 

Total technical expenditures 

(11)

200.0

 

224.6 

253.9 

215.7 

153.3 

Advertising expenditures

363.4

 

355.2 

357.8 

374.1 

351.0 

Repairs and maintenance

137.0

 

135.8 

131.7 

115.8 

99.5 

Depreciation

268.0

 

262.1 

278.2 

285.0 

172.1 

Shareholders of record (total count)

5,468

 

5,659 

6,244 

6,470 

6,787 

Number of employees (total count)

61,031

 

61,111 

59,740 

59,257 

49,054 

Sales per employee (thousands of dollars)

$

301

 

$

293 

$

294 

$

253 

$

242 

(1)

2017 includes Valspar financial results since June 1, 2017.

(2)

2020 includes acquisition-related amortization expense of $304.5 million. 2019 includes acquisition-related costs of $389.3 million, non-cash trademark impairment charges of $122.1 million, domestic pension plan settlement expense of $32.4 million, as well as a Brazil indirect tax credit of $50.8 million and a benefit from the resolution of the California litigation of $34.7 million. 2018 includes acquisition-related costs of $484.4 million, environmental expense provisions of $167.6 million, California litigation expense of $136.3 million and domestic pension plan settlement expense of $37.6 million. 2017 includes acquisition-related costs of $488.6 million.

(3)

2020 includes after-tax acquisition-related amortization expense of $230.0 million. 2019 includes after-tax acquisition-related costs of $299.6 million, after-tax trademark impairment charges of $93.1 million, tax credit investment loss of $74.3 million and after-tax domestic pension plan settlement expense of $25.0 million, partially offset by an after-tax Brazil indirect tax credit of $33.3 million and after-tax benefit from the resolution of the California litigation of $26.1 million. 2018 includes after-tax acquisition-related costs of $394.4 million, after-tax environmental expense provisions of $126.1 million, after-tax California litigation expense of $103.4 million and after-tax domestic pension plan settlement expense of $28.3 million. 2017 includes a one-time income tax benefit of $668.8 million from deferred income tax reductions resulting from the Tax Act (see Note 19 of Item 8) and includes after-tax acquisition-related costs of $329.4 million.

(4)

Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2016-02, “Leases” (ASC 842) using the modified retrospective transition method. As a result, total assets in 2020 and 2019 include operating lease right-of-use assets. See the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Note 8 in Item 8 for additional information.

(5)

2020 includes a charge of $2.50 per share for acquisition-related amortization expense. 2019 includes charges of $3.21 per share for acquisition-related costs, $1.00 per share for non-cash trademark impairment charges, a tax credit investment loss of $0.79 per share and domestic pension plan settlement expense of $0.27 per share, partially offset by a Brazil indirect tax credit of $0.36 per share and a benefit from the resolution of the California litigation of $0.28 per share. 2018 includes charges of $4.15 per share for acquisition-related costs, $1.32 per share for environmental expense provisions, $1.09 per share for California litigation expense and $0.30 per share for domestic pension plan settlement expense. 2017 includes a one-time benefit of $7.04 per share from deferred income tax reductions resulting from the Tax Act (see Note 19 of Item 8) and a charge of $3.47 per share for acquisition-related costs.

(6)

Based on net income and shareholders’ equity at beginning of year.

(7)

Based on cash dividends per common share and prior year’s diluted net income per common share.

(8)

Ratio of income before income taxes and interest expense to interest expense.

(9)

Based on income before income taxes. 2017 excludes impact of one-time income tax benefit primarily related to the Tax Act (see Note 19 of Item 8).

(10)

EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure which management believes enhances the understanding of the Company’s operating performance. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this Item 6 for additional information.

(11)

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information.

21

Table of Contents

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Management utilizes certain financial measures that are not in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) to analyze and manage the performance of the business. The required disclosures for these non-GAAP measures are shown below. The Company provides such non-GAAP information in reporting its financial results to give investors additional data to evaluate the Company’s operations. Management does not, nor does it suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP measures in isolation from, or in substitution for, financial information prepared in accordance with US GAAP.

EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA

EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as net income before income taxes and interest, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the Valspar acquisition and other adjustments. Management considers EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA useful in understanding the operating performance of the Company. The reader is cautioned that the Company’s EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be compared to other entities unknowingly. Further, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered alternatives to net income or net operating cash as an indicator of operating performance or as a measure of liquidity. The reader should refer to the determination of net income and net operating cash in accordance with US GAAP disclosed in the Statements of Consolidated Income and Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows in Item 8.

The following table summarizes EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as calculated by management for the years indicated below:

(millions of dollars)

Year Ended December 31,

2020

2019

Net income

$

2,030.4

 

$

1,541.3 

Interest expense

340.4

 

349.3 

Income taxes

488.8

 

440.5 

Depreciation

268.0

 

262.1 

Amortization

313.4

 

312.8 

EBITDA

3,441.0

 

2,906.0 

Trademark impairment

122.1 

Brazil indirect tax credit

(50.8)

California litigation expense

(34.7)

Domestic pension plan settlement expense

32.4 

Integration costs

81.8 

Adjusted EBITDA

$

3,441.0

 

$

3,056.8 

Free Cash Flow

Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as Net operating cash, as shown in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows, less the amount reinvested in the business for Capital expenditures and the return of investment to its shareholders by the payment of cash dividends. Management considers Free Cash Flow to be a useful tool in its determination of appropriate uses of the Company’s Net operating cash. The reader is cautioned that the Free Cash Flow measure should not be compared to other entities unknowingly as it may not be comparable, and it does not consider certain non-discretionary cash flows, such as mandatory debt and interest payments. The amount shown below should not be considered an alternative to Net operating cash or other cash flow amounts provided in accordance with US GAAP as disclosed in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows in Item 8. 

The following table summarizes Free Cash Flow as calculated by management for the years indicated below: 

(millions of dollars)

Year Ended December 31,

2020

2019

Net operating cash

$

3,408.6

 

$

2,321.3 

Capital expenditures

(303.8)

(328.9)

Cash dividends

(488.0)

(420.8)

Free cash flow

$

2,616.8

 

$

1,571.6 

22

Table of Contents

Adjusted Diluted Net Income Per Share

Management of the Company believes that investors’ understanding of the Company’s operating performance is enhanced by the disclosure of diluted net income per share excluding Valspar acquisition-related costs and other adjustments. This adjusted earnings per share measurement is not in accordance with US GAAP. It should not be considered a substitute for earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 

The following tables reconcile diluted net income per share computed in accordance with US GAAP to adjusted diluted net income per share.

Year Ended

December 31, 2020

Pre-Tax

Tax 

Effect 

(1)

After-Tax

Diluted net income per share

$

22.08 

Acquisition-related amortization expense 

(2)

$

3.31 

$

.81 

2.50 

Adjusted diluted net income per share

$

24.58 

Year Ended

December 31, 2019

Pre-Tax

Tax 

Effect 

(1)

After-Tax

Diluted net income per share

$

16.49 

Trademark impairment

$

1.31 

$

.31 

1.00 

Brazil indirect tax credit

(.54)

(.18)

(.36)

California litigation expense provision reduction 

(.37)

(.09)

(.28)

Tax credit investment loss

(.79)

.79 

Domestic pension plan settlement expense 

.35 

.08 

.27 

Total other adjustments 

.75 

(.67)

1.42 

Integration costs 

(3)

.88 

.19 

.69 

Acquisition-related amortization expense 

(2)

3.29 

.77 

2.52 

Total acquisition-related costs

$

4.17 

$

.96 

3.21 

Adjusted diluted net income per share

$

21.12 

(1)    

The tax effect is calculated based on the statutory rate and the nature of the item, unless otherwise noted.

(2)    

Acquisition-related amortization expense consists primarily of the amortization of intangible assets related to the Valspar acquisition and is included in Amortization.

(3)    

Integration costs consist primarily of professional service expenses, salaries and other employee-related expenses dedicated directly to the integration effort, and severance expense. These costs are included in Selling, general and administrative and other expenses and Cost of goods sold.

23

Table of Contents

Adjusted Segment Profit

Management of the Company believes that investors’ understanding of the Company’s operating performance is enhanced by the disclosure of segment profit excluding Valspar acquisition-related costs and other adjustments. This adjusted segment profit measurement is not in accordance with US GAAP. It should not be considered a substitute for segment profit in accordance with US GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The following tables reconcile segment profit computed in accordance with US GAAP to adjusted segment profit.

Year Ended December 31, 2020

The Americas Group

Consumer Brands 

Group

Performance Coatings 

Group

Administrative

Total

Net external sales

$

10,383.2 

$

3,053.4 

$

4,922.4 

$

2.7 

$

18,361.7 

Income before income taxes

$

2,294.1 

$

579.6 

$

500.1 

$

(854.6)

$

2,519.2 

as a % of Net external sales

22.1 

%

19.0 

%

10.2 

%

13.7 

%

Acquisition-related amortization expense 

(1)

90.5 

213.1 

0.9 

304.5 

Adjusted segment profit

$

2,294.1 

$

670.1 

$

713.2 

$

(853.7)

$

2,823.7 

as a % of Net external sales

22.1 

%

21.9 

%

14.5 

%

15.4 

%

Year Ended December 31, 2019

The Americas Group

Consumer Brands 

Group

Performance Coatings 

Group

Administrative

Total

Net external sales

$

10,171.9 

$

2,676.8 

$

5,049.2 

$

2.9 

$

17,900.8 

Income before income taxes

$

2,056.5 

$

373.2 

$

379.1 

$

(827.0)

$

1,981.8 

as a % of Net external sales

20.2 

%

13.9 

%

7.5 

%

11.1 

%

Trademark impairment

5.1 

117.0 

122.1 

Brazil indirect tax credit

(50.8)

(50.8)

California litigation expense provision reduction

(34.7)

(34.7)

Domestic pension plan settlement expense

32.4 

32.4 

Total other adjustments

— 

5.1 

117.0 

(53.1)

69.0 

Integration costs 

(2)

81.8 

81.8 

Acquisition-related amortization expense 

(1)

91.2 

215.5 

0.8 

307.5 

Total acquisition-related costs

— 

91.2 

215.5 

82.6 

389.3 

Adjusted segment profit

$

2,056.5 

$

469.5 

$

711.6 

$

(797.5)

$

2,440.1 

as a % of Net external sales

20.2 

%

17.5 

%

14.1 

%

13.6 

%

(1)    

Acquisition-related amortization expense consists primarily of the amortization of intangible assets related to the Valspar acquisition and is included in Amortization.

(2)    

Integration costs consist primarily of professional service expenses, salaries and other employee-related expenses dedicated directly to the integration effort, and severance expense. These costs are included in Selling, general and administrative and other expenses and Cost of goods sold

24

Table of Contents

[THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

25

Table of Contents