>Item 7A

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (see Market Risk Management)

66

Item 8

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

 

 

Quarterly Financial Summary

79

 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

85

 

Consolidated Balance Sheets

88

 

Consolidated Statements of Income

89

 

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

90

 

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity

91

 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

92

 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

 

 

Note 1. Basis of Presentation

93

 

Note 2. Business Combinations

108

Note 3. Securities Financing Activities

110

 

Note 4. Investment Securities

111

 

Note 5. Loans and ACL

113

Note 6. Premises and Equipment

120

Note 7. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

120

Note 8. Loan Servicing

121

 

Note 9. Other Assets and Liabilities

122

 

Note 10. Deposits

123

 

Note 11. Borrowings

124

 

Note 12. Shareholders' Equity

125

 

Note 13. AOCI

127

 

Note 14. Income Taxes

128

 

Note 15. Benefit Plans

130

 

Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies

133

 

Note 17. Regulatory Requirements and Other Restrictions

137

 

Note 18. Fair Value Disclosures

138

 

Note 19. Derivative Financial Instruments

144

 

Note 20. Computation of EPS

148

 

Note 21. Operating Segments

148

Note 22. Parent Company Financial Information

152

Item 9

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure (None to be reported)

Item 9A

Controls and Procedures

154

Item 9B

Other Information (None to be reported)

 

PART III

Item 10

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

*

Item 11

Executive Compensation

*

Item 12

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

*

Item 13

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

*

Item 14

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

*

PART IV

Item 15

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

 

 

Financial Statements (see Listing in Item 8 above)

 

 

Exhibits

155

 

Financial Statement Schedules (None required)

 

Item 16

Form 10-K Summary (None)

*

For information regarding executive officers, refer to "Executive Officers" in Part I. The other information required by Item 10 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Nominees for Election as Directors for a One-Year Term Expiring in 2022," "Nominating and Governance Committee Director Nominations," "Ethics at Truist," "Corporate Governance Guidelines," "Audit Committee Report" and "Audit Committee" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "Compensation of Executive Officers," "Compensation and Human Capital Committee Report on Executive Compensation," "Compensation and Human Capital Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Compensation of Directors" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

For information regarding the registrant's securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans, refer to "Equity Compensation Plan Information" in Part II herein. The other information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the heading "Stock Ownership Information" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Director Independence" and "Related Person Transactions" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears under the headings "Fees to Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" and "Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policy" in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Glossary of Defined Terms

The following terms may be used throughout this report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes.

Term

Definition

ACL

Allowance for credit losses

AFS

Available-for-sale

Agency MBS

Mortgage-backed securities issued by a U.S. government agency or GSE

ALLL

Allowance for loan and lease losses

ALM

Asset/Liability management

ARRC

Alternative Reference Rates Committee of the FRB and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York

AOCI

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

Basel III Rules

Rules issued by the FRB, OCC and FDIC on capital adequacy and liquidity requirements in the U.S for banking organizations. 

BB&T

BB&T Corporation and subsidiaries (changed to "Truist Financial Corporation" effective with the Merger)

BCBS

Basel Committee on Banking Supervision

BHC

Bank holding company

BHCA

Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended

Branch Bank

Branch Banking and Trust Company (changed to "Truist Bank" effective with the Merger)

BSA/AML

Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering

Board

Truist's Board of Directors

BU

Business Unit

C&CB

Corporate and Commercial Banking, an operating segment

CARES Act

The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act

CB&W

Consumer Banking and Wealth, an operating segment

CCAR

Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review

CD

Certificate of deposit

CDI

Core deposit intangible

CECL

Current expected credit loss model

CEO

Chief Executive Officer

CFTC

Commodity Futures Trading Commission

CFO

Chief Financial Officer

CET1

Common equity tier 1

CIB

Corporate and Investment Banking 

CFPB

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

CMO

Collateralized mortgage obligation

Company

Truist Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (interchangeable with "Truist" below), formerly BB&T Corporation

COVID-19

Coronavirus disease 2019

CRA

Community Reinvestment Act of 1977

CRE

Commercial real estate

CRO

Chief Risk Officer

DC

Disclosure Committee

DEI

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

DIF

Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC

Dodd-Frank Act

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act

DTA

Deferred tax asset

DTL

Deferred tax liability

EBPCC

Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct Committee

ECRPMC

Enterprise Credit Risk and Portfolio Management Committee

EGRRCPA

Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act

ERC

Enterprise Risk Committee

ERISA

Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974

EPS

Earnings per common share

EVE

Economic value of equity

Exchange Act

Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended

FASB

Financial Accounting Standards Board

FDIC

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

FHA

Federal Housing Administration

FHC

Financial holding company

FHLB

Federal Home Loan Bank

Truist Financial Corporation   1

Term

Definition

FHLMC

Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation

FINRA

Financial Industry Regulatory Authority

FNMA

Federal National Mortgage Association

FRB

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

FTE

Full-time equivalent employee

GAAP

Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America

GDP

Gross Domestic Product

GLBA

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act

GNMA

Government National Mortgage Association

Grandbridge

Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, LLC

GSE

U.S. government-sponsored enterprise

HFI

Held for investment

HMDA

Home Mortgage Disclosure Act

HQLA

High-quality liquid assets

HTM

Held-to-maturity

IDI

Insured depository institution

IH

Insurance Holdings, an operating segment

IPV

Independent price verification

IRC

Internal Revenue Code

IRS

Internal Revenue Service

ISDA

International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.

LCR

Liquidity Coverage Ratio

LHFS

Loans held for sale

LIBOR

London Interbank Offered Rate

LOCOM

Lower of cost or market

Market Risk Rule

Market risk capital requirements issued jointly by the OCC, U.S. Treasury, FRB, and FDIC

MBS

Mortgage-backed securities

MD&A

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Merger

Merger of BB&T and SunTrust effective December 6, 2019

MRLCC

Market Risk, Liquidity and Capital Committee

MRM

Model Risk Management

MSR

Mortgage servicing right

MSRB

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board

NA

Not applicable

NCCOB

North Carolina Office of the Commissioner of Banks

NIM

Net interest margin, computed on a TE basis

NM

Not meaningful

NPA

Nonperforming asset

NPL

Nonperforming loan

NSFR

Net stable funding ratio

NYSE

New York Stock Exchange

OAS

Option adjusted spread

OCC

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

OCI

Other comprehensive income (loss)

OFAC

U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control

OPEB

Other post-employment benefit

OREO

Other real estate owned

OT&C

Other, Treasury and Corporate

OTC

Over-the-counter

OTTI

Other than temporary impairment

Parent Company

Truist Financial Corporation, the parent company of Truist Bank and other subsidiaries

Patriot Act

Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001

PCD

Purchased credit deteriorated loans

PCI

Purchased credit impaired loans

Peer Group

Financial holding companies included in the industry peer group index

PPP

Paycheck Protection Program, established by the CARES Act

PSU

Performance share units

2   Truist Financial Corporation

Term

Definition

Re-REMICs

Re-securitizations of Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits

RMO

Risk Management Organization

ROU assets

Right-of-use assets 

RSA

Restricted stock award

RSU

Restricted stock unit

RUFC

Reserve for unfunded lending commitments

S&P

Standard & Poor's

SBIC

Small Business Investment Company

SCB

Stress Capital Buffer

SEC

Securities and Exchange Commission

Short-Term Borrowings

Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowed funds with original maturities of less than one year

SOFR

Secured Overnight Financing Rate

SunTrust

SunTrust Banks, Inc.

Tailoring Rules 

The final rules changing the applicability thresholds for regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, issued by the OCC, FRB, and FDIC, together with the final rules changing the applicability thresholds for enhanced prudential standards issues by the FRB

TDR

Troubled debt restructuring

TE

Taxable-equivalent

TMC

Technology Management Committee

TRS

Total Return Swap

Truist

Truist Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (interchangeable with the "Company" above), formerly BB&T Corporation

Truist Bank

Truist Bank, formerly Branch Banking and Trust Company

U.S.

United States of America

U.S. Treasury

United States Department of the Treasury

UPB

Unpaid principal balance

UTB

Unrecognized tax benefit

VA

United States Department of the Veterans Affairs

VaR

Value-at-risk

VIE

Variable interest entity

Truist Financial Corporation   3

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, regarding the financial condition, results of operations, business plans and the future performance of Truist. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "plans," "projects," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could" and other similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts but instead represent management's expectations and assumptions regarding Truist's business, the economy and other future conditions. Such statements involve inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. As such, Truist's actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements. While there can be no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements include the following, without limitation, as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed under Item 1A-Risk Factors:

•

risks and uncertainties relating to the Merger of heritage BB&T and heritage SunTrust, including the ability to successfully integrate the companies or to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger;

•

expenses relating to the Merger and integration of heritage BB&T and heritage SunTrust;

•

deposit attrition, client loss or revenue loss following completed mergers or acquisitions may be greater than anticipated;

•

the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the global economy, adversely impacted Truist's financial condition and results of operations, including through increased expenses, reduced fee income and net interest margin and increases in the allowance for credit losses, and continuation of current conditions could worsen these impacts and also adversely affect Truist's capital and liquidity position or cost of capital, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, cause an outflow of deposits, and impair goodwill or other assets;

•

Truist is subject to credit risk by lending or committing to lend money and may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type or location of the borrower or collateral;

•

changes in the interest rate environment, including the replacement of LIBOR as an interest rate benchmark and potentially negative interest rates, which could adversely affect Truist's revenue and expenses, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital, cash flows, and liquidity;

•

inability to access short-term funding or liquidity, loss of client deposits or changes in Truist's credit ratings, which could increase the cost of funding or limit access to capital markets;

•

risk management oversight functions may not identify or address risks adequately, and management may not be able to effectively manage credit risk;

•

risks resulting from the extensive use of models in Truist's business, which may impact decisions made by management and regulators;

•

failure to execute on strategic or operational plans, including the ability to successfully complete or integrate mergers and acquisitions;

•

increased competition, including from new or existing competitors that could have greater financial resources or be subject to different regulatory standards, for products and services offered by non-bank financial technology companies may reduce Truist's client base, cause Truist to lower prices for its products and services in order to maintain market share or otherwise adversely impact Truist's businesses or results of operations;

•

failure to maintain or enhance Truist's competitive position with respect to new products, services and technology, whether it fails to anticipate client expectations or because its technological developments fail to perform as desired or do not achieve market acceptance or regulatory approval or for other reasons, may cause Truist to lose market share or incur additional expense;

•

negative public opinion, which could damage Truist's reputation;

•

increased scrutiny regarding Truist's consumer sales practices, training practices, incentive compensation design and governance;

•

regulatory matters, litigation or other legal actions, which may result in, among other things, costs, fines, penalties, restrictions on Truist's business activities, reputational harm, negative publicity or other adverse consequences;

•

evolving legislative, accounting and regulatory standards, including with respect to capital and liquidity requirements, and results of regulatory examinations, may adversely affect Truist's financial condition and results of operations;

•

the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on profitability;

•

accounting policies and processes require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain, including the potential write down to goodwill if there is an elongated period of decline in market value for Truist's stock and adverse economic conditions are sustained over a period of time;

•

general economic or business conditions, either globally, nationally or regionally, may be less favorable than expected, and instability in global geopolitical matters or volatility in financial markets could result in, among other things, slower deposit or asset growth, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, insurance or other services;

•

risks related to originating and selling mortgages, including repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers related to representations and warranties on loans sold, which could result in an increase in the amount of losses for loan repurchases;

•

risks relating to Truist's role as a loan servicer, including an increase in the scope or costs of the services Truist is required to perform without any corresponding increase in servicing fees, or a breach of Truist’s obligations as servicer;

•

Truist's success depends on hiring and retaining key personnel, and if these individuals leave or change roles without effective replacements, Truist's operations and integration activities could be adversely impacted, which could be exacerbated as Truist continues to integrate the management teams of heritage BB&T and heritage SunTrust;

•

fraud or misconduct by internal or external parties, which Truist may not be able to prevent, detect or mitigate;

•

security risks, including denial of service attacks, hacking, social engineering attacks targeting Truist's teammates and clients, malware intrusion, data corruption attempts, system breaches, cyber attacks and identity theft, could result in the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect Truist's business or reputation or create significant legal or financial exposure; and

•

widespread outages of operational, communication or other systems, whether internal or provided by third parties, natural or other disasters (including acts of terrorism and pandemics), and the effects of climate change could have an adverse effect on Truist's financial condition and results of operations, or lead to material disruption of Truist's operations or the ability or willingness of clients to access Truist's products and services.

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, Truist undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements.

4   Truist Financial Corporation

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Truist is a banking organization headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Truist conducts its business operations primarily through its bank subsidiary, Truist Bank, and other nonbank subsidiaries.

Merger with SunTrust

The Company completed its Merger with SunTrust on December 6, 2019. Refer to "Note 2. Business Combinations" for additional details related to the Merger.

Operating Subsidiaries

Truist Bank, Truist's largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Truist Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for clients through 2,781 offices as of December 31, 2020 and its digital platform.

Services

Truist's subsidiaries offer commercial and consumer clients a full array of products and services to meet their financial needs.

Table 1: Services

 

Consumer Services:

 

Commercial Services:

Asset management

Asset based lending

Automobile lending

Asset management

Bankcard lending

Association services

Consumer finance

Capital markets services

Home equity lending

Commercial deposit and treasury services

Home mortgage lending

Commercial finance

Insurance

Commercial middle market lending

Investment brokerage services

Commercial mortgage lending

Mobile/online banking

Corporate banking

Payment solutions

Floor plan lending

Private equity investments

Governmental finance

Retail deposit services

Institutional trust services

Small business lending

Insurance

Student lending

Insurance premium finance

Wealth management/private banking

International banking services

Investment banking services

Leasing

Merchant services

Mortgage warehouse lending

Treasury and payment solutions

Private equity investments

Real estate lending

Supply chain financing

Truist Financial Corporation   5

Market Area

The following table reflects Truist's deposit market share and branch locations by state:

Table 2: Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State

 

% of Truist’s Deposits (2)

Deposit Market Share Rank (2)

Number of Branches (3)

Florida

23 

%

3rd

637

Georgia

16 

1st

325

Virginia

15 

2nd

406

North Carolina (1)

15 

1st

371

Maryland

7 

3rd

232

Tennessee

5 

4th

145

Pennsylvania

5 

8th

180

South Carolina

4 

3rd

128

Texas

2 

17th

103

West Virginia

2 

1st

52

Kentucky

2 

4th

73

Washington, D.C.

2 

4th

28

Alabama

1 

6th

70

New Jersey

1 

19th

23

Other states

NA

NA

8

(1)

Excludes home office deposits.

(2)

Source: FDIC.gov data as of June 30, 2020.

(3)

As of December 31, 2020.

Management believes that Truist's community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company's ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. In addition, management has made significant investments in recent years to develop its digital platform and believes that its mobile and online applications are highly competitive in meeting clients' expectations.

Competition

The financial services industry is intensely competitive and constantly evolving. Legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes as well as continued consolidation within the industry could result in competition from new and existing market participants. Truist's subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies, financial technology companies and insurance companies. The ability of non-banking entities, including financial technology companies, to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has increased competition. Non-banking entities are not subject to the same regulatory framework as banks and BHCs, and therefore, can often operate with greater flexibility and lower costs. In addition, the ability to access and use technology is an increasingly significant competitive factor in the financial services industry. Having the right technology is a critically important component to client satisfaction because it affects the Company’s ability to deliver the products and services that clients desire in a manner that they find convenient and attractive. Management believes that the Company is well positioned to compete and that its continued focus on touch and technology will engender trust among its current and future clients. For additional information concerning markets, Truist's competitive position and business strategies, see "Market Area" above and "General Business Development" in the discussion that follows.

General Business Development

Truist seeks to satisfy all of its clients' financial needs, enabling the Company to grow and diversify its sources of revenue and profitability. Truist's long-term strategy encompasses both organic and inorganic growth, including mergers or acquisitions of complimentary financial institutions or other businesses.

Merger and Acquisition Strategy

Truist's merger and acquisition strategy focuses on meeting the following criteria:

•

the organization must be a good fit with Truist's culture;

•

the merger or acquisition must be strategically attractive;

•

associated risks must be identified and mitigation plans put in place, such that any residual risks fall within Truist's risk appetite; and

•

the transaction must meet Truist's financial criteria.

6   Truist Financial Corporation

Truist's growth in business, profitability and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Truist will assess future opportunities, based on geography and market conditions and may, among other possibilities, pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, certain lending businesses and fee income generating financial services businesses.

Regulatory Considerations

The regulatory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. In addition to banking laws and regulations, Truist is subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of Truist and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. Truist and its subsidiaries are also subject to supervision and examination by multiple regulators.

Banking and other financial services statutes regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to Truist and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to Truist, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization.

The scope of the laws and regulations, and the intensity of the supervision to which Truist is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors such as technological and market changes. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Truist expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision.

The descriptions below summarize certain significant federal and state laws to which Truist is subject. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions summarized. They do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in current laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statues or regulatory provisions.

General

As a BHC, Truist is subject to regulation under the BHCA and to regulation, examination and supervision by the FRB. Truist Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the NCCOB and the FDIC. Truist Bank and its affiliates are also subject to examination by the CFPB for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws.

Truist and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in derivatives transactions, securities underwriting, market making, brokerage, investment advisory and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other federal and state regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, CFTC, FINRA and the NYSE. Truist Bank is also subject to additional state and federal laws, as well as various compliance regulations, that govern its activities, the investments it makes, and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower.

Examinations by Truist's regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. Following those examinations, Truist and Truist Bank are assigned supervisory ratings. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings, which are considered confidential supervisory information, could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of Truist's operations.

Under the FRB's Large Financial Institution Rating System, component ratings are assigned for capital planning, liquidity risk management, and governance and controls. To be considered "well managed" under this rating system, a firm must be rated "broadly meets expectations" or "conditionally meets expectations" for each of its three component ratings.

The results of examinations by any of Truist's federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on Truist's activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad enforcement authority and discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable law or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, or represent an unfair or deceptive act or practice. 

Truist Financial Corporation   7

FHC Regulation

Truist has elected to be treated as a FHC, which allows it to engage in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permissible for a BHC, including activities that are financial in nature or incidental thereto, such as securities underwriting or merchant banking. In order to maintain its status as a FHC, Truist and its affiliated IDI must be well-capitalized and well-managed and Truist Bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating. If the FRB determines that a FHC is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the FRB may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the FHC, and may place limitations on its ability to conduct certain business activities that FHCs are generally permitted to conduct and its ability to make certain acquisitions. If the failure to meet these standards persists, a FHC may be required to divest its IDI subsidiaries, or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by BHCs that are not FHCs. Furthermore, if an IDI subsidiary of a FHC has not maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the FHC would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the FHC would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities.

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Regulatory Tailoring Rules

Certain U.S. BHCs, including Truist, are subject to enhanced prudential standards. As such, Truist is subject to more stringent liquidity and capital requirements, leverage limits, stress testing, resolution planning and risk management standards than those applicable to smaller institutions. Certain larger banking organizations are subject to additional enhanced prudential standards. Truist became subject to the FRB's single-counterparty credit limit rule as of July 1, 2020, and is subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures, including exposure resulting from, among other transactions, extensions of credit, repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions, investments in securities and derivative transactions, to any other unaffiliated counterparty. 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Truist is subject to the standards applicable to Category III banking organizations, which generally include bank holding companies with greater than $250 billion, but less than $700 billion, in total consolidated assets and less than $75 billion in certain risk-related exposures.

Resolution Planning

As a Category III banking organization, Truist will be required to submit a resolution plan every three years, with the first resolution plan under the new rule to be submitted by September 29, 2021. Later resolution plans under this rule will alternate between full resolution plans and targeted resolution plans. The FRB and the FDIC must review and evaluate Truist's resolution plan. The FRB and FDIC are authorized to impose restrictions on growth and activities or operations if the agencies determine that a resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and could require the banking organization to divest assets or take other actions if it did not submit an acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed.

In addition, Truist Bank is required by an FDIC regulation to file a separate bank level resolution plan. In April 2019, the FDIC issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking that would modify the content and frequency of resolution planning requirements for systemically important IDIs. While this proposal did not include specific details regarding the content or frequency of future bank level resolution planning requirements, the FDIC indicated that the revised approach would establish tiered resolution planning requirements based on the size, complexity and other factors of applicable IDIs. On January 19, 2021 the FDIC lifted a moratorium from November 2018 that delayed the next round of submissions of resolution plans for IDIs until this rulemaking process has been completed. The FDIC has indicated that firms will not be required to submit a resolution plan without at least 12 months advance notice. As Truist Bank has not received any written notice regarding its next resolution plan submission it does not currently have an anticipated submission date for a resolution plan.

Capital Requirements

Truist and Truist Bank are subject to certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements established by the FRB, for Truist, and by the FDIC, for Truist Bank. These requirements are based on the capital framework developed by the BCBS for strengthening the regulation, supervision and risk management of banks under Basel III rules, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the FRB and FDIC may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity, or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on Truist's operations or financial condition. Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could also result in restrictions on Truist's or Truist Bank's ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval of applications.

8   Truist Financial Corporation

In October 2019, the federal banking regulators adopted rules that revised the criteria for determining the applicability of regulatory capital and liquidity requirements for large United States banking organizations, including Truist and Truist Bank, and that tailored the application of the FRB's enhanced prudential standards to large banking organizations. Under these rules, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to the standards applicable to "Category III" banking organizations.

Under the regulatory capital rules, Truist's and Truist Bank's assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights used to determine the institutions' risk-weighted assets. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for Truist and Truist Bank:

•

CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets. CET1 capital primarily includes common shareholders' equity subject to certain regulatory adjustments and deductions, including with respect to goodwill, intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, and AOCI. 

•

Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of CET1 capital, perpetual preferred stock and certain qualifying capital instruments.

•

Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of total capital, including CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Tier 2 capital, to risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying ALLL. Tier 2 capital also includes, among other things, certain trust preferred securities.

In March 2020, the FRB adopted a final rule that integrates its annual capital planning and stress testing requirements with existing regulatory capital requirements. For risk-based capital requirements for certain large BHCs, including Truist, the SCB replaced the capital conservation buffer, which was required in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and repurchases of any Tier 1 capital instrument, such as common and qualifying preferred stock, and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. The capital conservation buffer was 2.5% through September 30, 2020. Beginning in the 2020 CCAR cycle, the FRB will notify Truist of its SCB requirements, which is equal to the greater of (i) the difference between its starting and minimum projected CET1 capital ratios under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test, plus the sum of the dollar amount of Truist's planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon as a percentage of risk-weighted assets, or (ii) 2.5%. The FRB assigned Truist an SCB of 2.7%, which is effective from October 1, 2020 through September 30, 2021. Although the final rule continues to require that the firm describe its planned capital distributions in its CCAR capital plan, Truist is no longer required to seek prior approval if it makes capital distributions in excess of those included in its CCAR capital plan. Instead, Truist is subject to automatic distribution limitations if its capital ratios fall below its buffer requirements, which include the SCB. 

For certain large banking organizations, the SCB could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. This buffer is currently set at zero. An FRB policy statement establishes the framework and factors the FRB would use in setting and adjusting the amount of the countercyclical capital buffer. Covered banking organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement, unless the FRB determines to establish an earlier effective date. If the full countercyclical buffer amount is implemented, Truist would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.7%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11.2%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 13.2%, and Truist Bank would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 13%, to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments.

Certain large banking organizations with trading assets and liabilities above certain thresholds, including Truist, are subject to the Market Risk Rule and must adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk of their trading activities. Refer to the "Market Risk" section of the MD&A for additional disclosures related to market risk management.

In addition, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets, net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and certain other deductions. Category III banking organizations are also subject to a minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio. The supplementary leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by total leverage exposure, which takes into account on-balance sheet assets as well as certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure of derivative contracts.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the FRB adopted an interim final rule that temporarily changes the supplementary leverage ratio to exclude U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from the calculation of a firm's leverage exposure. The interim final rule applies to BHCs. The interim final rule became effective April 1, 2020 and will remain in effect through March 31, 2021. While a similar rule providing relief to IDIs was issued, Truist Bank has elected not to take advantage of this provision for Truist Bank.

Truist Financial Corporation   9

The total minimum regulatory capital ratios and well-capitalized minimum ratios applicable to Category III banking organizations are reflected in the table below. The FRB has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for BHCs to reflect the higher capital requirements imposed under the Basel III Rules. For purposes of certain FRB rules, including determining whether a BHC meets the requirements to be a FHC, BHCs, such as Truist, must maintain a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.0% or greater and a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or greater. The FRB may require BHCs, including Truist, to maintain capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a BHC's particular condition, risk profile, and growth plans.

The following table presents the minimum regulatory capital ratios, well-capitalized minimums, and minimum ratio plus the SCB or capital conservation buffer, as applicable:

Table 3: Capital Requirements Under Basel III Rules

Minimum Capital

Well Capitalized (1)

Minimum Capital Plus Applicable Buffer (2)

CET1 risk-based capital ratio:

Truist

4.5 

%

NA

7.2 

%

Truist Bank

4.5 

6.5 

%

7.0 

Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio:

Truist

6.0 

6.0 

8.7 

Truist Bank

6.0 

8.0 

8.5 

Total risk-based capital ratio:

Truist

8.0 

10.0 

10.7 

Truist Bank

8.0 

10.0 

10.5 

Leverage ratio:

Truist

4.0 

NA

NA

Truist Bank

4.0 

5.0 

NA

Supplementary leverage ratio:

Truist

3.0 

NA

NA

Truist Bank

3.0 

NA

NA

(1)

Reflects the well-capitalized standard applicable to Truist under FRB regulations and the well-capitalized standard applicable to Truist Bank.

(2)

Reflects a SCB of 270 basis points for Truist and a capital conservation buffer of 250 basis points for Truist Bank.

In 2020, the U.S. banking agencies adopted a final rule that permits banking organizations that implement CECL before the end of 2020 to elect to follow the three-year transition available under the prior rule or a new five-year transition to phase in the effects of CECL on regulatory capital. Under the five-year transition, the banking organization would defer for two years 100% of the day-one effect of adopting CECL and 25% of the cumulative increase in the allowance for credit losses since adoption of CECL. Following the first two years, the electing organization will phase out the aggregate capital effects over the next three years consistent with the transition in the original three-year transition rule. Truist has elected to use the five-year transition to phase in the impacts of CECL on regulatory capital.

The U.S. banking agencies have adopted a final rule altering the definition of eligible retained income. Under the final rule, eligible retained income is the greater of a firm's (i) net income for the four preceding calendar quarters, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income, and (ii) average net income over the preceding four quarters. This definition applies with respect to all of Truist's capital requirements.

Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements

In addition to the regulatory capital requirements, under the FRB's CCAR process, Truist must submit an annual capital plan to the FRB that reflects its projected financial performance under hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory severely adverse scenario provided by the FRB. 

The FRB's CCAR framework and the Dodd-Frank Act stress testing framework also require BHCs subject to Category III standards, such as Truist, to conduct company-run stress tests and subject them to supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB. The company-run stress tests employ stress scenarios provided by the FRB and incorporate the Dodd-Frank Act capital actions, which are intended to normalize capital distribution assumptions across large U.S. BHCs. In addition, Truist is required to conduct annual stress tests using internally-developed scenarios intended to stress the unique risk profile of the institution. The FRB also conducts CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests employing internal supervisory models on the supervisory stress scenarios. As a Category III banking organization, Truist is subject to supervisory stress testing on an annual basis and company-run stress testing on a biennial basis.

10   Truist Financial Corporation

Starting in the third quarter of 2020, following the release of its annual stress testing and due to the ongoing economic uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, the FRB required certain large banking organizations, including Truist, to suspend share repurchases, cap common dividends per share to the amount paid in the second quarter, and further limit dividends according to a formula based on recent income. The FRB also required all large banks to resubmit and update their capital plans based on instructions and scenarios provided by the FRB. In December 2020, following a second round of stress testing based on the required capital plan resubmissions, the FRB modified these restrictions for the first quarter of 2021 to permit share repurchases and dividends according to a formula based on the average of the firm's net income for the four preceding calendar quarters. The FRB has not yet announced whether they intend to return to the SCB framework for purposes of capital distributions beginning in second quarter of 2021.

Truist is required to submit its next capital plan and the results of its own stress tests to the FRB by April 5, 2021. The FRB is required to announce the results of its supervisory stress tests by June 30, 2021.

In addition to the CCAR stress testing for Truist, Truist Bank conducts annual company-run stress tests. 

Liquidity Requirements

Certain BHCs and their bank subsidiaries, including Truist and Truist Bank, are subject to a minimum LCR. The LCR is designed to ensure that BHCs have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant liquidity stress event lasting for 30 calendar days.

Truist also is subject to FRB rules that require certain large BHCs to conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net outflows under the BHC's 30-day liquidity stress test, and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets certain requirements.

Effective July 2021, Truist will be subject to final rules implementing the NSFR, which is designed to ensure that banking organizations maintain a stable, long-term funding profile in relation to their asset composition and off-balance sheet activities. The NSFR, calculated as the ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding, must exceed 1.0x. Available stable funding represents a weighted measure of a company's funding sources over a one-year time horizon, calculated by applying standardized weightings to the company's equity and liabilities based on their expected stability. Required Stable Funding is calculated by applying standardized weightings to assets, derivatives exposures and certain other items based on their liquidity characteristics. As a Category III banking organization, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to an NSFR requirement equal to 85% of the full requirement.

Payment of Dividends

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, and it depends in part upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Truist Bank, to fund its activities, including its ability to make capital distributions, such as paying dividends or repurchasing shares. Under federal law, there are various limitations on the extent to which Truist Bank can declare and pay dividends to the Parent Company, including those related to regulatory capital requirements, general regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, and federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits, surplus, and available earnings. Certain contractual restrictions also may limit the ability of Truist Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Company. No assurances can be given that Truist Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to the Parent Company.

The Parent Company's ability to declare and pay dividends is similarly limited by federal banking law and FRB regulations and policy. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from making capital distributions if they would be deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for BHCs to pay dividends unless a BHC's net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization's capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. In addition, the Parent Company's ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends and repurchasing capital securities, is subject to the FRB's automatic restrictions on capital distributions under the FRB's capital rules. Truist's risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements are discussed below in the "U.S. Basel III Capital Rules" section.

North Carolina law provides that, as long as a bank does not make distributions that reduce its capital below its applicable required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as the directors deem proper.

For additional information regarding limitations on dividends resulting from the 2020 CCAR process, refer to "Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements" above.

Truist Financial Corporation   11

Prompt Corrective Action

The federal banking agencies are required to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to financial institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five categories for this purpose: "well-capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized." To be considered "well-capitalized," an IDI must maintain minimum capital ratios and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. An institution that fails to remain well-capitalized becomes subject to a series of restrictions that increase in severity as its capital condition weakens. Such restrictions may include a prohibition on capital distributions, restrictions on asset growth or restrictions on the ability to receive regulatory approval of applications. The regulations apply only to banks and not to BHCs. However, the FRB is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of the holding company's subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary's capital restoration plan and could be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee commitments.

In addition, failure to meet capital requirements may cause an institution to be directed to raise additional capital. Federal law further mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation, and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards. Failure to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver.

Transactions with Affiliates 

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which Truist and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise engage in certain types of transactions with Truist Bank. Under the Federal Reserve Act and FRB regulations, Truist Bank and its subsidiaries are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets, and certain other transactions involving its non-bank affiliates. In addition, transactions between Truist Bank and its non-bank affiliates are required to be on arm's length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness.

Acquisitions

Truist is subject to numerous laws that may require regulatory approval for acquisitions. For example, under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any BHC or bank or merge or consolidate with another BHC without the prior approval of the FRB. The BHCA and other federal laws enumerate the factors the FRB must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the United States; the organizations' compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the IDIs involved in the transaction.

Federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic limitation, and a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, subject to market share limitations, regulatory approvals and any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time. The market share limitations impose conditions that the acquiring BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of IDIs in the U.S. and no more than 30%, or such lesser or greater percentage established by state law, of such deposits in applicable states. FRB rules also prohibit a FHC from combining with another company if the ratio of the resulting company's liabilities exceeds 10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies. 

After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to privately negotiated acquisition transactions.

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations

The FRB has supervisory and enforcement powers over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries. The FRB has authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative order or written agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of confidential supervisory actions, cease and desist orders, civil monetary penalties or other actions.

12   Truist Financial Corporation

There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on BHCs and their IDI subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to depositors and the DIF in the event the IDI is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, the FRB requires a BHC to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary IDIs and to commit financial resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise.

Banking regulators also have broad supervisory and enforcement powers over Truist Bank, including the power to impose confidential supervisory actions, fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a receiver in order to conserve the assets of Truist Bank for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The NCCOB also has the authority to take possession of a North Carolina state bank in certain circumstances, including when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock.

DIF Assessments

Truist Bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits, which is currently $250,000 per account ownership type. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that determines assessment rates for an IDI based on an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each IDI poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly.

As of June 30, 2020, the DIF reserve ratio fell to 1.30% due to significant growth in industry deposits during the first half of 2020. The FDIC, as required under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, established a plan on September 15, 2020, to restore the DIF reserve ratio to meet or exceed 1.35% within eight years. The FDIC's restoration plan projects the reserve ratio to exceed 1.35% without increasing the deposit insurance assessment rate, subject to ongoing monitoring over the next eight years. The FDIC could increase the deposit insurance assessments for certain insured depository institutions, including Truist Bank, if the DIF reserve ratio is not restored as projected.

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations

In connection with its lending and leasing activities, Truist Bank is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. The CFPB examines Truist and Truist Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile, student and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services offered. The federal consumer financial protection laws that are subject to the CFPB's supervision and enforcement powers include, among others, the Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, HMDA, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Housing Act. The CFPB also has authority to take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service.

The CFPB may issue regulations that impact products and services offered by Truist or Truist Bank. The regulations could reduce the fees that Truist receives, alter the way Truist provides its products and services, or expose Truist to greater risk of private litigation or regulatory enforcement action.

During November 2019, SunTrust Bank entered into a consent order with the FRB, relating to certain identified legacy compliance issues, and providing certain remediation actions and the verification of such actions regarding the identified issues. Truist Bank, as successor to SunTrust Bank, has committed to comply with the obligations in the order. Compliance with the order's obligations is currently being assessed by the FDIC.

Patriot Act

The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to cooperate in the prevention, detection and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The Patriot Act contains anti-money laundering measures affecting IDIs, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, which requires such financial institutions to implement policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions' operations. The Patriot Act imposes substantial obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and processes to detect, prevent and report money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crimes. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputation damage, or restrictions on business. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution's anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions.

Truist Financial Corporation   13

BSA/AML and Sanctions

Truist is subject to a number of anti-money laundering laws and regulations as a result of being a financial company headquartered in the United States. AML requirements are primarily derived from the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act. These laws and regulations are designed to prevent the financial system from being used by criminals to hide illicit proceeds and to impede terrorists' ability to access and move funds used in support of terrorist activities. Among other things, BSA/AML laws and regulations require financial institutions to establish AML programs that meet certain standards, including, in some instances, expanded reporting, particularly in the area of suspicious transactions, and enhanced information gathering and recordkeeping requirements. Financial institutions are also required to verify their customers' identity, verify the identity of beneficial owners of legal entity customers, conduct customer due diligence, report on suspicious activity, file reports of transactions in currency, and conduct enhanced due diligence on certain accounts. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or maintain adequate AML related controls can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational damage.

The U.S. Treasury's OFAC rules prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in financial transactions with certain individuals, entities, or countries, identified as "Specially Designated Nationals," such as terrorists and narcotics traffickers. These rules require the blocking of assets held by, and prohibit transfers of property to such individuals, entities or countries. Blocked assets, such as property or bank deposits, cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Truist maintains an OFAC program designed to ensure compliance with OFAC requirements. Failure to comply with such requirements could subject Truist to serious legal and reputational consequences, including criminal penalties.

On January 1, 2021, the U.S. Congress enacted the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020, which seeks to modernize the anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism framework in the United States, by enhancing analytical capabilities of and improving coordination among law enforcement agencies. The act also seeks to streamline the currency transaction report and suspicious activity report requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act. The act directs the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a bureau of the U.S. Treasury, to establish a national beneficial ownership reporting framework that requires non-exempt U.S. companies and companies doing business in the U.S. to disclose information about their beneficial ownership at the time of incorporation and subsequently when changes occur. In addition to being available to law enforcement, information maintained in the database would be available to financial institutions in support of their customer due diligence requirements. The act will be implemented through various regulations, reports, and assessments by the various financial regulators, which have not yet been proposed. The impact of such regulations on Truist will depend on the final requirements.

Privacy and Cyber Security

The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. These guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its board of directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. In addition, various U.S. regulators, including the FRB and the SEC, have increased their focus on cyber security through guidance, examinations and regulations.

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the banking subsidiary's policies and procedures.

States are also increasingly proposing or enacting legislation that relates to data privacy and data protection such as the California Consumer Privacy Act which went into effect on January 1, 2020. Truist has undertaken significant efforts to comply with these laws and continues to assess their requirements and applicability to Truist. These laws and proposed legislation are still subject to revision or formal guidance and they may be interpreted or applied in a manner inconsistent with the Company's understanding. California voters also recently passed the California Privacy Rights Act, which will take effect on January 1, 2023, and significantly modifies the California Consumer Privacy Act, including by imposing additional obligations on covered companies and expanding California consumers' rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information, potentially resulting in further uncertainty and requiring Truist to incur additional costs and expenses in an effort to comply.

In addition, the promulgation in 2017 of the New York Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulation and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Insurance Data Security Model Law are driving significant cybersecurity compliance activities for Truist. Both of these regulations include phased compliance periods as well as attestation of compliance by Truist.

14   Truist Financial Corporation

Like other lenders, Truist Bank uses credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. The Fair Credit Reporting Act regulates reporting information to credit bureaus, prescreening individuals for credit offers, sharing of information between affiliates, and using affiliate data for marketing purposes. Similar state laws may impose additional requirements on Truist Bank.

In addition, in December 2020, the FRB, OCC and FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that, among other things, would require a banking organization to notify its primary federal regulators within 36 hours after identifying a "computer-security incident" that the banking organization believes in good faith could materially disrupt, degrade or impair its business or operations in a manner that would, among other things, jeopardize the viability of its operations, result in customers being unable to access their deposit and other accounts, result in a material loss of revenue, profit or franchise value, or pose a threat to the financial stability of the U.S.

CRA

The CRA requires Truist Bank's primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: "Outstanding," "Satisfactory," "Needs to Improve" or "Substantial Noncompliance." This assessment is considered for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an IDI, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a FHC also is assessed by the FRB in connection with reviewing any proposed acquisition or merger application.

Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation

There are federal consumer protection laws related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions. The CFPB prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. Financial institutions must also provide consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution's overdraft services, including the associated fees and the consumer's choices. In addition, FDIC-supervised institutions must monitor overdraft payment programs for "excessive or chronic" client use and undertake "meaningful and effective" follow-up action with clients that overdraw their accounts more than six times during a rolling 12-month period. Financial institutions must also impose daily limits on overdraft charges, review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from available overdraft coverage amounts and ensure board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs.

Volcker Rule

Truist is prohibited under the Volcker Rule from (i) engaging in proprietary trading activities, and (ii) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with covered private funds. The fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including Truist and its affiliates. The Volcker Rule regulations contain exemptions or exclusions for market-making, hedging, underwriting, trading in U.S. government and agency obligations and also permit certain ownership interests in certain types of funds to be retained. They also permit the offering and sponsoring of funds under certain conditions. The Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance obligations on banking entities. Truist has put in place the compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule and has either divested or received extensions for any holdings in illiquid funds.

In June 2020, the regulatory agencies charged with implementing the Volcker Rule finalized amendments to the Volcker Rule's restrictions on ownership interests in and relationships with covered funds. Among other things, these amendments permit banking entities to have relationships with and offer additional financial services to additional types of funds and investment vehicles. These requirements are not expected to have a material impact on Truist's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Regulatory Regime for Swaps 

The Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive regulatory regime for the OTC swaps market, aimed at increasing transparency and reducing systemic risk in the derivatives markets, including requirements for central clearing, exchange trading, capital adequacy, margin, reporting, and recordkeeping. The Dodd-Frank Act requires that certain swap dealers and security-based swap dealers register with one or both of the SEC and CFTC, depending on the nature of the swaps business. Truist Bank provisionally registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer, subjecting Truist Bank to requirements under the CFTC's regulatory regime, including trade reporting and record keeping requirements, margin requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain standardized swaps designated by the CFTC. Truist Bank expects to register with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer in 2021. Such registration will subject Truist Bank's security-based swaps business to requirements that are similar to the CFTC rules applicable to swap dealers, including trade reporting, business conduct standards, recordkeeping, margin, and potentially mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements.

Truist Financial Corporation   15

Truist Bank's uncleared swaps and security-based swaps are subject to variation margin and initial margin requirements. The variation margin requirements are currently in effect and the initial margin requirements are phasing in over a period of six years and will be fully phased-in on September 1, 2022, depending on the level of derivatives activity of the swap dealer and the relevant counterparty. Truist Bank's derivatives business involving uncleared swaps is expected to become subject to initial margin requirements established by the U.S. prudential regulators, which may subject Truist Bank to initial margin requirements that exceed current market practice.

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation

Truist's broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC. FINRA is the primary self-regulatory organization for Truist's registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries. Truist's broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions. The SEC and FINRA have active enforcement functions that oversee broker-dealers and investment advisers and can bring actions that result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations also can affect Truist's ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.

In June 2019, the SEC finalized Regulation Best Interest, which imposes a new standard of conduct on SEC-registered broker-dealers when making recommendations to retail customers. In addition, the SEC finalized a new summary disclosure form that broker-dealers and investment advisers must provide to retail customers. Truist's broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries were required to comply with these requirements, as applicable, as of June 2020.

FDIC Recordkeeping Requirements

To facilitate prompt payment of FDIC-insured deposits when large IDIs fail, FDIC rules require IDIs with two million or more deposit accounts to maintain complete and accurate data on each depositor's ownership interest by right and capacity and to develop the capability to calculate the insured and uninsured amounts for each deposit owner by ownership right and capacity. Compliance with the rule was originally required by April 1, 2020. In July 2019, the FDIC amended the rules related to recordkeeping requirements and timely deposit insurance determination to allow covered IDIs an optional one-year extension, which Truist elected, of the original compliance deadline to April 1, 2021. 

Other Regulatory Matters

Truist is subject to examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, NYSE, various taxing authorities and various state insurance and securities regulators. Truist periodically receives requests for information from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning Truist's business and accounting practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business.

Government Response to COVID-19

Congress, the FRB and the other U.S. state and federal financial regulatory agencies, as well as state legislatures and officials, have taken actions to mitigate disruptions to economic activity and financial stability resulting from COVID-19 and may continue to evolve such approaches and requirements in ways that further impact the business of the Company. The descriptions below summarize certain significant government actions taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions or government programs summarized.

The CARES Act

The CARES Act was signed into law on March 27, 2020 and subsequently has been amended several times, including by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021. Among other provisions the CARES Act includes funding for the Small Business Administration to expand lending, relief from certain U.S. GAAP requirements to allow COVID-19-related loan modifications to not be categorized as troubled debt restructurings and a range of incentives to encourage deferment, forbearance or modification of loans. One of the key CARES Act programs is the PPP. PPP loans are available to a broader range of entities than ordinary Small Business Administration loans, require deferral of principal and interest repayment, and the loan may be forgiven. The PPP was recently expanded to permit a second round of funding, including for certain borrowers who have already received a PPP loan, subject to certain conditions. On February 22, 2021, changes were made to the PPP program to establish a 14-day exclusive application period beginning on February 24, 2021, for businesses and nonprofits with fewer than 20 employees. This is intended to give lenders and community partners more time to work with the smallest businesses, while also ensuring that larger PPP-eligible businesses still have time to apply and receive support prior to the program expiration on March 31, 2021.

16   Truist Financial Corporation

The CARES Act contains additional protections for homeowners and renters of properties with federally backed mortgages, including a 60-day moratorium on the initiation of foreclosure proceedings beginning on March 18, 2020 and a 120-day moratorium on initiating eviction proceedings effective March 27, 2020. Borrowers of federally backed mortgages have the right under the CARES Act to request up to 360 days of forbearance on their mortgage payments if they experience financial hardship directly or indirectly due to the coronavirus-related public health emergency. FNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA have continued to extend their moratorium on foreclosures and evictions for single-family federally backed mortgages well into 2021.

Also pursuant to the CARES Act, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to provide loans, guarantees and other investments in support of eligible businesses, states and municipalities affected by the economic effects of COVID-19. Some of these funds have been used to support the several FRB programs and facilities described below or additional programs or facilities that are established by the FRB under its Section 13(3) authority and meeting certain criteria.

In addition to authorizing several programs to provide loans, guarantees and other investments in support of eligible organizations, states and municipalities affected by the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the CARES Act also includes several measures that temporarily adjust existing laws or regulations. The CARES Act also provides financial institutions with the option to suspend certain GAAP requirements for coronavirus-related loan modifications that would otherwise constitute troubled debt restructurings and further requires the federal banking agencies to defer to financial institutions' determinations in making such suspensions. Refer to "Note 1. Basis of Presentation" for Truist's policy related to COVID-19 loan modifications.

FRB Actions

The FRB took a range of actions to support the flow of credit to households and businesses. For example, on March 15, 2020, the FRB reduced the target range for the federal funds rate to 0 to 0.25% and announced that it would increase its holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities and begin purchasing agency commercial mortgage-backed securities. The FRB also encouraged depository institutions to borrow from the discount window and lowered the primary credit rate for such borrowing by 150 basis points and extended the term of such loans up to 90 days. Reserve requirements have been reduced to zero as of March 26, 2020.

In addition, the FRB established a range of facilities and programs to support the U.S. economy and U.S. marketplace participants in response to economic disruptions associated with COVID-19. Through these facilities and programs, the FRB took steps to directly or indirectly purchase assets from, or make loans to, U.S. companies, financial institutions, municipalities and other market participants. 

FRB facilities and programs that remain active include: 

•

a PPP Liquidity Facility to provide financing related to PPP loans made by banks;

•

a Primary Dealer Credit Facility to provide liquidity to primary dealers through a secured lending facility;

•

a Commercial Paper Funding Facility to purchase the commercial paper of certain U.S. issuers; and 

•

a Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility to purchase certain assets from, or make loans to, financial institutions providing financing to eligible money market mutual funds.

FRB facilities and programs that expired as of December 31, 2020 included:

•

three Main Street Loan Facilities to purchase loan participations, under specified conditions, from banks lending to small and medium sized U.S. businesses;

•

a Primary Market Corporate Credit Facility to purchase corporate bonds directly from, or make loans directly to, eligible participants;

•

a Secondary Market Corporate Credit Facility to purchase corporate bonds trading in secondary markets, including from exchange-traded funds, that were issued by eligible participants;

•

a Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility to make loans secured by asset-backed securities; and

•

a Municipal Liquidity Facility to purchase bonds directly from U.S. state, city and county issuers

Human Capital

Truist believes it is crucial to attract and retain top talent who can further Truist's purpose, mission and values. To facilitate talent attraction and retention, Truist aims to provide teammates a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace that affords them opportunities to grow and develop in their careers.

Truist's Compensation and Human Capital Committee provides input on talent management strategy for Truist and oversees the design and administration of material incentive compensation arrangements, as well as other human capital matters, including teammate diversity and inclusion, teammate engagement, and well-being initiatives.

Truist Financial Corporation   17

Truist's Enterprise Ethics Risk Office partners with a broad group of internal stakeholders to set standards for teammate conduct and facilitate the timely intake and routing of teammate concerns for review. As part of that effort, the team seeks to identify trends reflecting on organizational culture and/or operational challenges and to develop solutions. The results of these efforts are regularly shared with Truist's Executive-Level Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct Committee and its Board of Directors.

The following table presents a summary of teammates as of December 31, 2020:

Table 4: Teammate Summary

# of Teammates

% of Population

Full-Time

52,294

95.1 

%

Part-Time

2,688

4.9 

Total

54,982

100.0 

%

Leveraging a skilled contingent workforce is an important part of Truist's overall workforce strategy. It has enabled Truist the ability to drive process and system integrations during the Merger period while continuing to deliver on Truist's core purpose.

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

Truist's commitment to DEI is deeply rooted in the Company's purpose to inspire and build better lives and communities. Ensuring Truist attracts, develops, and retains diverse, talented, and caring people in the industry is critical to the Company's overall success. To deliver on Truist's DEI goals, Truist created a dedicated DEI Office, specifically focused on attracting and advancing diverse representation at key levels of the Company, embedding DEI in all Truist's business strategies and hiring and investing in diverse communities. The DEI Office partners with groups across Truist to develop tools, resources, and programs to positively influence the societal impact of clients, teammates, communities and stakeholders.

Truist recognizes that ethnically diverse talent have historically been underrepresented in leadership positions at financial services companies. To emphasize Truist's commitment to advancing diversity, the Company committed to increasing its racially and ethnically diverse teammates among senior leadership positions to 15%.

The following tables presents a summary of diversity statistics as of December 31, 2019:

Table 5: Teammate Diversity (1)

Women

People of Color

Board of Directors

31.8 

%

18.2 

%

Executive Leadership & senior leaders

22.1 

11.8 

First / mid-level managers

54.1 

24.7 

Professionals

50.4 

33.2 

All others

76.9 

40.9 

All teammates

64.4 

35.6 

(1)

Source: EEO-1 data as of December 31, 2019. All others is a combination of sales workers and administrative support EEO-1 job categories.

Talent Development

Truist teammates have access to extensive programs and benefits for career advancement. Teammates can partner with a certified coach to help them focus, create clear goals and stay accountable to achieving those goals. Truist also provides tuition assistance so teammates can continue formal education by seeking degrees that align with career goals.

In addition to career development opportunities, Truist provides a differentiated learning experience to new and existing teammates, including formal onboarding training to prepare new teammates through learning content libraries for individual development needs. Truist provides a wide range of forums for learning that include relevant current trends and emerging skills in the marketplace.

Truist also has a Leadership Institute, a uniquely qualified leadership development center that creates dynamic leaders and increases teammate retention. Truist strives to succeed in maximizing the potential in every individual and instilling values and behaviors that create a strong culture of leadership. The Truist Leadership Institute combines expert psychological insight with lessons learned throughout its 60-year history of leadership development. This foundation has allowed Truist to provide teammates throughout the Company with the knowledge and skills to maximize performance.

18   Truist Financial Corporation

Health, Safety, and Wellness and COVID-19

The health and safety of teammates are paramount and they have guided Truist's responses to the COVID-19 crisis. In a shift of operations, Truist enabled the majority of its workforce to work remotely, moved call centers to work-from-home status, provided teammates with the technology and resources to continue working, and enhanced cybersecurity. For teammates who needed to work in branches and offices, Truist implemented new cleaning routines, social distancing procedures, and wellness and hygiene measures. In 2020 Truist provided all teammates with resources to support their physical and mental well-being during this time.

Website Access to Truist's Filings with the SEC

Truist's electronic filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost on the Company's Investor Relations website, 

IR.Truist.com

, as soon as reasonably practicable after Truist files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Truist's SEC filings are also available through the SEC's website at sec.gov.

Corporate Governance

Information with respect to Truist's Board of Directors, Executive Officers and corporate governance policies and principles is presented on Truist's Investor Relations website, 

IR.Truist.com

. Specifically, the Company makes available on its Investor Relations website, under the heading "Governance & Responsibility" (i) its codes of ethics for the Board, senior financial officers, and teammates, (ii) its Corporate Governance Guidelines, and (iii) the charters of the Company's Board committees. If the Company makes changes in, or provides waivers from, the provisions of any of its codes of ethics that the SEC requires it to disclose, the Company intends to disclose these events in the "Governance & Responsibility" section of its Investor Relations website.

Truist Financial Corporation   19

Executive Officers

Executive Officer

Recent Work Experience

Years of Service

Age

Kelly S. King

Chairman since January 2010. Chief Executive Officer since January 2009.

48

72

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 

William H. Rogers, Jr.

President and Chief Operating Officer since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012.

40*

63

President and Chief Operating Officer

Daryl N. Bible

Chief Financial Officer since January 2009.

13

59

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 

Scott Case

Chief Information Officer since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Chief Information Officer since February 2018. Chief Information Officer at Ciox Health from 2017 to 2018. Chief Technology Officer of SunTrust Consumer Segment from 2015 to 2017.

5*

50

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer

Hugh S. (Beau) Cummins, III

Head of the Corporate and Institutional Group since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Co-Chief Operating Officer and Wholesale Segment Executive since February 2018. SunTrust Corporate Executive Vice President and Wholesale Segment Executive from 2017 to February 2018. SunTrust Commercial and Business Banking Executive from 2013 to 2017.

15*

58

Senior Executive Vice President and Head of the Corporate and Institutional Group

Ellen M. Fitzsimmons

Chief Legal Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity since December 2019. Previously SunTrust General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2018. General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of CSX Corporation from 2003 to 2017.

3*

60

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity

Christopher L. Henson

Head of Banking and Insurance since December 2019. President from December 2016 to December 2019 and Chief Operating Officer from January 2009 to December 2019.

36

59

Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Banking and Insurance

 

Michael B. Maguire

Head of National Consumer Finance and Payments since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Enterprise Partnerships and Investments Executive.

18*

42

Senior Executive Vice President and Head of National Consumer Finance & Payments

Kimberly Moore-Wright,

Chief Human Resources Officer since December 2019. Director of Marketing and Digital Sales from January 2016 to November 2019. Director of Retail and Commercial Marketing Strategy from January 2012 to December 2015.

25

47

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer

Brant J. Standridge

Head of Retail Community Banking since December 2019. President, Retail Banking since January 2018. Lending Group Manager from August 2016 to December 2017. Regional President in Texas from January 2015 to August 2016. 

22

45

Senior Executive Vice President and President, Retail Banking

Clarke R. Starnes III

Chief Risk Officer since July 2009.

38

61

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer

 

Joseph M. Thompson

Head of Truist Wealth since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Head of Private Wealth Management since August 2014.

27*

54

Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Truist Wealth

David H. Weaver

Head of Commercial Community Banking since December 2019. President, Community Banking since December 2016. Community Banking Group Executive from 2010 to December 2016.

25

54

Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Commercial Community Banking

 

Dontá L. Wilson

Chief Digital and Client Experience Officer since November 2018. Chief Client Experience Officer since August 2016. Regional President in Georgia from December 2014 to July 2016.

22

44

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Digital and Client Experience Officer

*

Reflects combined years of services at Truist and SunTrust.

20   Truist Financial Corporation

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Summary of Risk Factors

Merger-Related Risks

•

Truist may not be able to successfully integrate the companies or to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger.

•

Truist will continue to incur substantial expenses related to the Merger and the integration.

COVID-19 Risks

•

The effects of COVID-19 have adversely impacted, and will likely continue to adversely impact, the Company's financial condition and results of operations.

Market Risks 

•

Changes in interest rates could adversely affect revenue and expenses, the value of assets and liabilities, as well as the availability and cost of capital, cash flows and liquidity.

•

The monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on profitability.

•

Financial results, lending or other business activities could be materially affected by a deterioration of economic conditions.

•

Instability in global economic conditions and geopolitical matters, as well as volatility in financial markets, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations, earnings and financial condition.

•

The replacement of LIBOR could adversely affect Truist's profitability and financial condition.

Credit Risks

•

The Company is subject to credit risk by lending or committing to lend money, or entering into a letter of credit or other types of contracts with counterparties.

•

The Company may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type or location of the borrower or collateral.

Liquidity Risks

•

Truist's liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access short-term funding or an unforeseen outflow of cash.

•

Loss of deposits or a change in deposit mix could increase Truist's funding costs.

•

Truist relies on the mortgage secondary market and GSEs for some of the Company's liquidity.

•

Any reduction in the Company's credit rating could increase the cost of the Company's funding from the capital markets.

•

The Parent Company has less access to funding sources and its liquidity could be constrained if the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends during a time of stress.

Compliance Risks

•

Truist is subject to extensive and evolving government regulation and supervision, which could increase the cost of doing business, limit Truist's ability to make investments and generate revenue and lead to costly enforcement actions.

•

Truist is subject to regulatory capital and liquidity standards that affect the Company's business, operations and ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders.

•

Truist is subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages and may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers.

•

Truist faces risks as a servicer of loans.

Strategic Risks

•

Truist may face the risk of financial loss or negative impact resulting from ineffective strategy setting and execution, adverse business decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in the external environment.

•

Competition may reduce Truist's client base or cause Truist to modify pricing for products and services in order to maintain market share.

•

Truist may not be able to complete future mergers or acquisitions.

•

Truist has businesses other than banking that are subject to a variety of risks.

Reputational Risks

•

Negative public opinion could damage the Company's reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.

•

Scrutiny of the Company's sales, training and incentive compensation practices could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.

Operational Risks

•

Litigation may adversely affect the Company's results.

•

The Company may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, including inadvertent or unintentional violations.

•

Truist relies on other companies to provide key components of the Company's business infrastructure.

•

Truist depends on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer.

Truist Financial Corporation   21

•

The Company may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of changes in the marketplace, which may increase costs and adversely impact the Company's ability to implement business strategies.

•

The Company's framework for managing risks may not be effective.

•

There are risks resulting from the extensive use of models in Truist's business, which may impact decisions made by Management and regulators.

•

The Company is at risk of increased losses from fraud.

•

The Company's operational or security systems or infrastructure or those of third parties, could fail or be breached, which could disrupt the Company's business and adversely impact the Company's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as well as cause legal or reputational harm.

•

Natural disasters and other catastrophic events could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations or the Company’s financial condition and results.

•

Truist may be impacted by the soundness of other financial institutions.

•

Truist depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.

•

The Company's accounting policies and processes are critical to how it reports the Company's financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.

•

Depressed market values for the Company's stock and adverse economic conditions sustained over a period of time may require the Company to write down all or some portion of the Company's goodwill.

•

Certain banking laws and certain provisions of the Company's articles of incorporation may have an anti-takeover effect.

Technology Risks

•

The Company faces cybersecurity risks, including denial of service, hacking and social engineering attacks that could result in the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect the Company's operations or reputation and create significant legal and financial exposure. 

•

Truist will continually encounter technological change and must effectively develop and implement new technology.

The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could materially affect Truist's financial condition and operations. When a risk factor spans several risk categories, the risks have been listed by their primary risk category. The risks described are not all inclusive. Additional risks that are not presently known or risks deemed immaterial may have a material adverse effect on Truist's financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects.

Merger-Related Risks

Truist may not be able to successfully integrate the companies or to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger.

The Company was formed by the Merger of BB&T and SunTrust on December 6, 2019. Truist anticipates further integration of systems, operations, and personnel of BB&T and SunTrust over the next couple of years.

The successful integration of BB&T's and SunTrust's operations will depend substantially on the Company's ability to successfully consolidate operations, management teams, corporate cultures, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. Truist may encounter difficulties during integration, such as:

•

the loss of key teammates and clients;

•

the disruption of operations and businesses;

•

loan, deposit, and revenue attrition;

•

inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies; 

•

unexpected issues with planned branch and other facilities closures; 

•

unexpected issues with costs, operations, personnel, technology; and

•

problems with the assimilation of new operations, sites or personnel.

Integration activities have and will continue to divert resources from regular operations. In addition, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry may inhibit the Company's successful integration of these entities.

22   Truist Financial Corporation

BB&T and SunTrust merged with the expectation that the Merger would result in various synergies, including benefits relating to enhanced revenues, a strengthened and expanded market position for the combined organization, technology efficiencies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the Company integrates the institutions in an efficient and effective manner, as well as general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve or delays in achieving these anticipated benefits could result in a share price reduction as well as increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and diversion of management's time and energy and could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects.

Truist will continue to incur substantial expenses related to the Merger and the integration.

There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated. In addition, the Merger may increase the Company's compliance and legal risks, including increased litigation or regulatory actions such as fines or restrictions related to the business practices or operations of the combined business.

While the Company has assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are many factors beyond the Company's control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the expected savings from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale. The amount and timing of future charges to earnings as a result of Merger or integration expenses are uncertain.

COVID-19 Risks

The effects of COVID-19 have adversely impacted, and will likely continue to adversely impact, the Company's financial condition and results of operations.

The COVID-19 pandemic has severely disrupted almost all economic activity in the U.S. Despite the partial lifting of federal and state shelter-in-place orders, some of which have been renewed, it remains unknown when there will be a return to normal economic activity due to

continued significant numbers of new cases, potential impact of new COVID strains, uncertain vaccination rollout timeline, and increased economic stress associated with the pandemic. Truist temporarily limited access to certain offices, limited branches to drive-thru and appointment only, suspended some services and the majority of the Company's workforce is working remotely, which may increase cybersecurity risks to the Company. Approximately 90% of branches are open and unlocked, or open with controlled access. Truist continues to follow appropriate COVID-19 safety protocols, including proper social distancing. Commercial clients are experiencing varying levels of disruptions or restrictions on their business activity and supply chains, closures of facilities or decreases in demand for their products and services. Consumer clients are experiencing interrupted income or unemployment. Certain industries have been particularly susceptible to the effects of the pandemic, such as hotels, resorts, cruise lines, oil and gas companies, senior and acute care facilities, restaurants, and other sensitive retail businesses, and Truist has outstanding loans to clients in these industries. In 2020, several credit rating agencies downgraded their outlook on U.S. banks due in part to the concerns presented by the pandemic. The global financial markets have also experienced significant volatility. The duration of this severe economic disruption and its related financial impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. 

The effects of the pandemic have already resulted in an increase in the allowance for credit losses, a reduction of fee income, a reduction of net interest margin and an increase in expenses. Prolonged continuation of current conditions could worsen these impacts and also affect the Company's capital and liquidity position, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause an outflow of deposits, cause significant property damage, in case of civil unrest or vandalism, influence the recognition of credit losses on loans and securities and further increase the allowance for credit losses, result in additional lost revenue, cause additional increases in expenses, result in goodwill impairment charges, result in the impairment of other financial and nonfinancial assets, and increase the Company's cost of capital.

Intensive government actions to mitigate the economic suffering caused by the pandemic may not be successful or may result in increased pressure on the banking sector. Net interest margin has been, and is likely to continue to be, affected by the very low interest rate environment. The application of forbearance and payment deferral policies beyond any statutory requirements may impact Truist's interest income. Truist participated in the SBA's PPP, which was recently expanded to permit a second round of funding, as an eligible lender with the benefit of a government guaranty of loans to small business clients, many of whom may face difficulties even after being granted such a loan. The Company faces increased risks, in terms of credit, fraud risk and litigation, in light of participation in this program. Truist has been named in several lawsuits relating to its participation in the PPP.

Truist Financial Corporation   23

It is possible that the pandemic and its aftermath will lead to a prolonged economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. economy or the world economy in general. The ultimate impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operation, and liquidity and capital position will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the pandemic and the actions to contain or treat its impact. Moreover, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will heighten the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Market Risks 

Changes in interest rates could adversely affect revenue and expenses, the value of assets and liabilities, as well as the availability and cost of capital, cash flows and liquidity.

Truist’s balance sheet can be sensitive to movements in market interest rates and spreads as well as basis risk arising from the Company's ALM activities, which management must closely monitor. In addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact the Company in one or more of the following ways:

•

The yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; or

•

The value of financial instruments held could change adversely.

Regional and local economic conditions, competitive pressures and the policies of regulatory authorities affect interest income and interest expense. When interest rates rise, funding costs may rise faster than the yield the Company earns on assets, causing net interest margin to contract. Higher interest rates may also result in lower mortgage production income and elevated charge-offs in certain categories of the loan portfolio. Conversely, when interest rates fall, the yield the Company earns on assets may fall faster than the Company's ability to lower rates paid on deposits or borrowings. 

Certain investment securities, notably MBS, are very sensitive to changes in rates. Generally, when rates rise, prepayments will decrease and the duration of MBS will increase. Conversely, when rates fall, prepayments of principal and interest will increase and the duration of MBS will decrease. 

In addition, in response to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and its economic consequences, the FRB lowered its target for the federal funds rate to a range of 0% to 0.25%. Low rates increase the risk of a negative interest rate environment, either broadly or for some types of instruments. For example, in March 2020 the yields on one-month and three-month Treasuries briefly dropped below zero. A negative interest rate environment could have a material adverse effect on Truist's financial condition and results of operations. In a negative interest rate environment, some depositors may choose to withdraw their deposits in lieu of paying an interest rate to Truist to hold such deposits. Negative rates would also diminish the spreads on loans and securities. Further, Truist cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary policies in response to the COVID-19 pandemic or the effects that they may have on the Company's activities and financial results.

The monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on profitability.

Changes in monetary and fiscal policies, including FRB policies, can adversely affect profitability and cannot be controlled or predicted by the Company. FRB policies can:

•

significantly impact the cost of funds, as well as the return on assets, both of which can have an impact on interest income;

•

materially affect the value of financial assets and liabilities;

•

adversely affect borrowers through higher debt servicing costs and potentially increase the risk that they may fail to repay their loan obligations; and 

•

artificially inflate asset values during prolonged periods of accommodative policy, which could in turn cause volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values.

Financial results, lending or other business activities could be materially affected by a deterioration of economic conditions.

A prolonged period of slow growth in the U.S. economy as a whole or in any regional markets that Truist serves, or any deterioration in economic conditions or the financial markets may disrupt or dampen the economy, which could materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results. 

24   Truist Financial Corporation

If economic conditions deteriorate, the Company may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy clients, reducing the Company's interest income. In addition, if unemployment levels increase or if real estate prices decrease, the Company would expect to incur higher charge-offs and may incur higher expenses in connection with adjustments to the reasonable and supportable forecasts used to estimate the allowance for credit losses in accordance with CECL requirements. These conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans, especially for those businesses that rely on the health of industries or properties that may suffer from deteriorating economic conditions. The ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing the Company to incur higher credit losses.

The deterioration of economic conditions also could adversely affect financial results for the Company's fee-based businesses. Truist earns fee income from, among other activities, managing assets for clients and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. Investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management and a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce the Company's fee income. Changes in stock or fixed income market prices or client preferences could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees earned from the Company's brokerage business. Poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets would likely adversely affect the Company's capital markets-related businesses.

Instability in global economic conditions and geopolitical matters, as well as volatility in financial markets, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations, earnings and financial condition.

Instability in global economic conditions and geopolitical matters, as well as volatility in financial markets, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations, earnings and financial condition. The macroeconomic environment in the United States is susceptible to global events and volatility in financial markets. For example, trade negotiations between the U.S. and other nations remains uncertain and could adversely impact economic and market conditions for the Company and its clients and counterparties. 

A negative change in economic conditions, the performance of foreign sovereign debt, changes of trade policies and other matters could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and liquidity. Domestic and global political activity, geopolitical matters, including international political unrest or disturbances, terrorist activities, military conflicts, concerns over energy prices, trade wars and economic instability or recession in certain regions could cause volatility in the financial markets, undermine investor confidence or cause a contraction of available credit. Any of these could reduce the value of the Company's assets or cause a reduction in liquidity that adversely impacts the Company's financial condition and results of operations. 

The replacement of LIBOR could adversely affect Truist's profitability and financial condition.

LIBOR and certain other interest rate benchmarks are the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. These reforms may cause such benchmarks to perform differently than in the past or have other consequences which cannot be predicted. LIBOR in its current form was anticipated to no longer be available after 2021. 

On November 30, 2020 the administrator of LIBOR announced it will consult on its intention to cease publication of the one-week and two-month settings immediately following the LIBOR publication on December 31, 2021, and the remaining U.S. dollar LIBOR settings immediately following the LIBOR publication on June 30, 2023. While there is no consensus on what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR, a group of market participants convened by the FRB, the ARRC, has selected the SOFR as its recommended alternative to U.S. dollar LIBOR. In 2020, Truist began offering SOFR-based lending solutions to wholesale and consumer clients, and entered into SOFR-based derivative contracts. 

The U.S. federal banking agencies issued a statement in November 2020 encouraging banks to transition away from U.S. dollar LIBOR as soon as practicable and to stop entering into new contracts that use U.S. dollar LIBOR by December 31, 2021. SOFR or other alternative reference rates may perform differently than LIBOR in response to changing market conditions. For example, SOFR could experience greater decreases during times of economic stress, which could require the Company to lend at lower rates at times when the Company's borrowing costs are increasing.

The market transition away from LIBOR to alternative reference rates is complex and could have a range of adverse effects on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, any such transition could:

•

adversely affect the interest rates received or paid on the revenue and expenses associated with or the value of the Company's LIBOR-based assets and liabilities;

•

adversely affect the interest rates received or paid on the revenue and expenses associated with or the value of other securities or financial arrangements, given LIBOR's role in determining market interest rates globally;

•

prompt inquiries or other actions from regulators in respect of the Company's preparation and readiness for the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate; and

Truist Financial Corporation   25

•

result in disputes, litigation or other actions with borrowers or counterparties about the interpretation and enforceability of certain fallback language in LIBOR-based contracts and securities.

The transition away from LIBOR to an alternative reference rate or rates will require the transition to or development of appropriate systems, models and analytics to effectively transition the Company's risk management and other processes from LIBOR-based products to those based on the applicable alternative reference rate, such as SOFR. Truist has developed a LIBOR transition team and project plan that outlines timelines and priorities to prepare its processes, systems and people to support this transition. Timelines and priorities include assessing the impact on the Company's clients, as well as assessing system requirements for operational processes. There can be no guarantee that these efforts will successfully mitigate the operational risks associated with the transition away from LIBOR to an alternative reference rate.

The manner and impact of the transition from LIBOR to an alternative reference rate, as well as the effect of these developments on the Company's funding costs, loan, investment and trading securities portfolios, and ALM, is uncertain.

Credit Risks 

The Company is subject to credit risk by lending or committing to lend money, or entering into a letter of credit or other types of contracts with counterparties.

Truist incurs credit risk, which is the risk of loss if the Company's borrowers or counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. A number of products expose the Company to credit risk, including loans and leases, lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets and investment securities. Changes in credit quality can have a significant impact on the Company's earnings and capital position. The Company estimates and establishes reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in its determination of credit exposure. This process, which is critical to the Company's financial results and condition, requires complex calculations and extensive use of judgment, considering both external and borrower-specific factors that might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that the Company will fail to identify all pertinent factors or that the Company will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors identified.

Credit losses may exceed the amount of the Company's reserves as a result of changing economic conditions, including falling real estate or commodity prices and higher unemployment or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. There is no assurance that reserves will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, the Company may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce the Company's earnings and potentially impact its capital. 

The Company may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type or location of the borrower or collateral.

The Company's credit risk and credit losses can increase if the Company's loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions.

Deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions or real estate values, including as a result of climate change or natural disasters, in the markets in which the Company operates could result in materially higher credit losses. The Company is also subject to physical risks, which could manifest in the form of asset quality deterioration and could be exacerbated by specific portfolio concentrations, and transition risks, which could manifest through longer-term shifts in market dynamics and consumer preferences in specific industries that may be more sensitive or vulnerable to a transition to a low carbon economy. Shorter term transition risks arising from regulatory changes or technological breakthroughs may require an acceleration of certain risk mitigation strategies.

Liquidity Risks

Truist's liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access short-term funding or an unforeseen outflow of cash.

Liquidity is essential to Truist's businesses. When volatility or disruptions occur in the wholesale funding markets, the Company's ability to access short-term liquidity could be materially impaired. In addition, other factors outside of the Company's control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties, could impair the Company's ability to access short-term funding or create an unforeseen outflow of cash due to, among other factors, draws on unfunded commitments or deposit attrition. The Company's inability to access short-term funding or capital markets could constrain the Company's ability to make new loans or meet existing lending commitments and could ultimately jeopardize the Company's overall liquidity and capitalization.

26   Truist Financial Corporation

Loss of deposits or a change in deposit mix could increase Truist's funding costs.

Deposits are a low cost and stable source of funding. Truist competes with banks and other financial institutions for deposits and as a result, could lose deposits in the future or see an increase in costs associated with maintaining deposits. Clients may shift their deposits into higher cost products or the Company may need to raise interest rates to avoid deposit attrition. Funding costs may also increase if deposits lost are replaced with wholesale funding. Higher funding costs reduce Truist's net interest margin, net interest income, and net income.

Truist relies on the mortgage secondary market and GSEs for some of the Company's liquidity.

Truist sells a portion of the mortgage loans originated to reduce the Company's retained credit risk and to provide funding capacity for originating additional loans. GSEs could limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or other changes in their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). This potential reduction in purchases could limit the Company's ability to fund new loans.

Proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the U.S., including the role of the GSEs in the housing finance market. The extent and timing of any such regulatory reform of the housing finance market and the GSEs, as well as any effect on the Company's business and financial results, are uncertain.

Any reduction in the Company's credit rating could increase the cost of the Company's funding from the capital markets.

Ratings agencies regularly evaluate Truist and its subsidiaries. Ratings are based on a number of factors, including the financial strength of the Company as well as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect funding cost and increase the Company's cost of capital. A credit downgrade might also affect the Company's ability to attract or retain deposits from commercial and corporate clients. Additionally, the Company's ability to conduct derivatives business with certain clients and counterparties could also be impacted and could trigger obligations to make cash or collateral payments to certain clients and counterparties. 

The Parent Company has less access to funding sources and its liquidity could be constrained if the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends during a time of stress.

The Parent Company relies upon capital markets access and dividends from affiliates for funding and has less access to contingent funding sources than the Bank. If the Bank were subject to a financial stress, its dividends to the Parent Company could be reduced or eliminated in order to support Bank capital ratios or other regulatory requirements. This would increase the Parent Company's reliance on capital markets at a time when spreads and funding costs are likely elevated due the stress impacting the Bank.

Compliance Risks

Truist is subject to extensive and evolving government regulation and supervision, which could increase the cost of doing business, limit Truist's ability to make investments and generate revenue and lead to costly enforcement actions.

The banking and financial services industries are highly regulated. Truist is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by regulators, including the FRB, FDIC, NCCOB, SEC, CFTC, CFPB, FINRA and various state regulatory agencies. The statutory and regulatory framework governing Truist is generally intended to protect depositors, the DIF, clients, and the U.S. financial system as a whole, and not Truist's debt holders or shareholders. Reform of the financial services industry resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, including the EGRRCPA and other legislative, regulatory and technological changes, affect the Company's operations. 

These laws and regulations and Truist's inability to act in certain instances without receiving prior regulatory approval affect Truist's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase common stock and ability to pursue strategic acquisitions, among other activities. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or their interpretation or implementation and the continued heightening of regulatory requirements could affect Truist in substantial and unpredictable ways. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher deposit insurance premiums and limitations on the Company's activities that could have a material adverse effect on operations or profitability.

Truist Financial Corporation   27

In recent years, both Congress and the federal banking regulators have engaged in a rebalancing of the post financial crisis legal and regulatory framework, particularly by tailoring enhanced prudential standards to the size, risk profile and complexity of the banking organization. It is possible that the new presidential administration and the new Congress could reconsider this rebalancing of the legal and regulatory framework and also impose significant new regulatory and supervisory burdens on the financial sector. Truist expects that its businesses will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Any potential new regulations or modifications to existing regulations would likely necessitate changes to Truist's existing regulatory compliance and risk management infrastructure. Compliance with new regulations and supervisory initiatives, including those newly applicable as a result of the Merger may increase costs. In addition, concerns over climate change may prompt changes in regulations that, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on asset values and the financial performance of Truist's businesses and its clients.

Truist is subject to heightened requirements under the enhanced prudential standards and expects increased supervisory scrutiny, including, for example, single counterparty credit limits, heightened expectations with respect to governance, risk management and internal controls and additional capital and liquidity requirements. 

The financial services industry faces scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and stringent enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels. Areas of focus in the recent past have been with respect to mortgage-related practices, student lending practices, auto lending practices, sales practices and related incentive compensation programs and other consumer compliance matters. Truist continues to be subject to examinations and ongoing monitoring to assess compliance with BSA/AML laws and regulations, as well as sanctions compliance administered by the OFAC. For example, during November 2019, SunTrust Bank entered into a consent order with the FRB in connection with marketing, enrollment and billing practices related to deposit account add-on and similar products provided to certain business customers. Current and future actions by regulators could impact Truist's operations. See additional disclosures in the "Regulatory Considerations" section. 

The Company is subject to laws, rules and regulations regarding compliance with privacy policies and the disclosure, collection, use, sharing and safeguarding of personal identifiable information of certain parties.

 

There has recently been an increase in legislative and regulatory efforts to protect the privacy of consumer data. These initiatives may limit how companies can use customer data and may increase compliance complexity and related costs, result in significant financial penalties for compliance failures and limit the Company's ability to develop new products or respond to technological changes. Such legal requirements also could heighten the reputational impact of perceived misuses of customer data by the Company and third parties.

Heightened regulatory scrutiny or the results of an investigation or examination may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. There is no assurance that those actions will not result in regulatory settlements or other enforcement actions against Truist. Furthermore, a single event involving a potential violation of law or regulation may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies and officials in the United States or, in some instances, regulators and other governmental officials in foreign jurisdictions.

Federal law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators and law enforcement agencies. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines or restitution; to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. These enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices.

A failure to comply with regulatory requirements and expectations could expose the Company to fines, regulatory penalties, other costs, reputational damage and regulatory or enforcement actions, such as limitations on engaging in new activities or expanding geographically.

 

In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms as part of such settlements, which could have significant consequences for a financial institution, including loss of clients, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. Violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in risk management practices also may be incorporated into Truist's confidential supervisory ratings. A downgrade in these ratings or these or other regulatory actions and settlements, could limit Truist's ability to conduct expansionary activities for a period of time and require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities. Any future enforcement action could have a material adverse impact.

Regulatory changes may reduce Truist's revenues, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer, alter the investments it makes, affect the manner in which it operates its businesses, increase its litigation and regulatory costs should it fail to appropriately comply with new or modified laws and regulatory requirements and increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products.

28   Truist Financial Corporation

Truist is subject to regulatory capital and liquidity standards that affect the Company's business, operations and ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. 

Truist is subject to regulatory capital and liquidity requirements established by the FRB and the FDIC. These regulatory capital and liquidity requirements are typically developed at an international level by the BCBS and then applied, with adjustments, in each country by the appropriate domestic regulatory bodies. Domestic regulatory agencies have the ability to apply stricter capital and liquidity standards than those developed by the BCBS. In several instances, the U.S. banking agencies have done so with respect to U.S. banking organizations. 

Requirements to maintain specified levels of capital and liquidity and regulatory expectations as to the quality of the Company's capital and liquidity may prevent the Company from taking advantage of opportunities in the best interest of shareholders or force the Company to take actions contrary to their interests. For example, Truist may be limited in its ability to pay or increase dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. In addition, these requirements may impact the amount and type of loans the Company is able to make. Truist may be constrained in its ability to expand, either organically or through mergers and acquisitions. These requirements may cause the Company to sell or refrain from acquiring assets where the capital requirements appear inconsistent with the assets' underlying risks. In addition, liquidity standards require the Company to maintain holdings of highly liquid investments, thereby reducing the Company's ability to invest in less liquid assets, even if more desirable from a balance sheet or interest rate risk management perspective. As a Category III banking organization, Truist is subject to additional capital and liquidity requirements.

The liquidity standards applicable to large U.S. banking organizations have also been supplemented in recent years. For example, in October 2020, the U.S. banking agencies finalized rules to implement the NSFR, which is designed to ensure that banking organizations maintain a stable funding profile in relation to their asset composition and off-balance sheet activities. 

In addition to the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements applicable to Truist and Truist Bank, the Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to capital requirements established by the SEC.

Regulatory capital and liquidity requirements receive periodic review and revision by the BCBS and the U.S. banking agencies. Changes to capital and liquidity requirements may require Truist or Truist Bank to maintain more or higher quality capital or greater liquidity and could increase some of the potential adverse effects described above.

Truist is subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages and may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers.

Truist is required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated when selling mortgage loans or loan securitizations. An increase in the number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers related to representations and warranties on loans sold could result in an increase in the amount of losses for loan repurchases. Truist also bears a risk of loss from borrower defaults for multi-family commercial mortgage loans sold to FNMA. 

In addition to repurchase claims from GSEs, Truist could be subject to indemnification claims from non-GSE purchasers of the Company's loans. Claims could be made if Truist fails to conform to statements about the quality of the mortgage loans sold, the manner in which the loans were originated and underwritten or to comply with state and federal law.

Truist faces risks as a servicer of loans.

The Company acts as servicer and master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. As a servicer or master servicer for those loans, the Company has certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties. As a servicer, Truist's obligations include foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales. In the Company's capacity as a master servicer, obligations include overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. Generally, the Company's servicing obligations are set by contract, for which the Company receives a contractual fee. However, GSEs can amend their servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services required without any corresponding increase in the Company's servicing fee. Further, the CFPB has implemented national servicing standards which have increased the scope and costs of services which the Company is required to perform. In addition, there has been a significant increase in state laws that impose additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and cost of the Company's servicing obligations. As a servicer, the Company also advances expenses on behalf of investors which it may be unable to collect.

Truist Financial Corporation   29

A material breach of the Company's obligations as servicer or master servicer may result in contract termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing the Company to lose servicing income. In addition, the Company may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by the Company, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform the Company's servicing obligations or any act or omission on the Company's part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence. For certain investors and certain transactions, Truist may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. The Company may be subject to increased repurchase obligations as a result of claims made that the Company did not satisfy its obligations as a servicer or master servicer. The Company may also experience increased loss severity on repurchases, which may require a material increase to the Company's repurchase reserve.

The Company has and may continue to receive indemnification requests related to the Company's servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily GSEs. Typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on the Company for departures from GSE service levels. In most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. Additionally, the Company has received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. While the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future.

Strategic Risks

Truist may face the risk of financial loss or negative impact resulting from ineffective strategy setting and execution, adverse business decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in the external environment.

Embedded within strategic risks are risks associated with:

•

maintaining a level of earnings appropriate to support growth objectives and the ability to maintain dividends in various economic cycles,

•

successful delivery of innovation and technology strategies that transform the client experience as well as the way Truist conducts business, and

•

changes and events within the external environment, including geopolitical, macroeconomic, social, cultural, competitive and regulatory factors.

Any of the foregoing may impact the successful execution of Truist's strategy.

Competition may reduce Truist's client base or cause Truist to modify pricing for products and services in order to maintain market share.

Truist operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive with neo-banks and other fintechs. Increased competition could arise from technological advancements, legislative and regulatory changes, as well as competition from other financial services companies, some of which may be subject to less extensive regulation than Truist. The Company's success depends, in part, on the Company's ability to adapt its offering of products and services to evolving industry standards and client expectations. The widespread adoption of new technologies has required and will continue to require substantial investments to modify existing products and services or to develop new products and services. In addition, there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices further reducing contribution margins. The Company may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology or those new products may not achieve market acceptance.

Truist also competes with nonbank companies inside and outside of the Company's market area and, in some cases, with companies other than those traditionally considered financial sector participants. In particular, technology companies are increasingly focusing on the financial sector, either in partnership with competitor banking organizations or on their own. These companies generally are not subject to the same regulatory burdens as main street financial institutions and may accordingly realize certain cost strategies and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the client. This competition could result in the loss of clients and revenue in areas where fintechs are operating. As the pace of technology and change advance, continuous innovation is expected to exert long-term pressure on the financial services industry.

The adoption of new technologies by competitors, including internet banking services, mobile applications, advanced ATM functionality and cryptocurrencies could require the Company to make substantial investments to modify or adapt the Company's existing products and services or even radically alter the way Truist conducts business. These and other capital investments in the Company's business may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure.

30   Truist Financial Corporation

Certain external environmental factors could also impact the Company's strategy. Increasing frequency and severity of impacts from natural disasters brought on by climate change may alter the Company's strategic direction in order to mitigate certain financial risks. While material impact from climate change is expected to occur over a longer time horizon, the acceleration of a transition to a low-carbon economy could present idiosyncratic risks in certain sectors and carbon intensive industries over time. Climate change is expected to present incremental risks to the execution of the Company's long-term strategy. In addition, concerns over climate change may prompt changes in regulations that, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on asset values and the financial performance of Truist's businesses, and those of its clients.

Truist may not be able to complete future mergers or acquisitions.

The Company must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions before completing an acquisition of another bank or BHC, including federal and state regulatory approvals. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank or BHC acquisition, bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition; financial condition and future prospects, including current and projected capital ratios and levels; the competence, experience and integrity of management; record of compliance with laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the CRA; the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities; and protests from various stakeholders. In addition, U.S. regulators must take systemic risk to the U.S. financial system into account when evaluating whether to approve a potential acquisition transaction involving a large financial institution like Truist. There is no certainty as to when or if or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted for any potential acquisition. In specific cases, Truist may be required to sell banks or branches or take other actions as a condition to receiving regulatory approval. An inability to satisfy other conditions necessary to consummate an acquisition transaction, such as third party litigation, a judicial order blocking the transaction or lack of shareholder approval, could also prevent the Company from completing an announced acquisition. 

Truist has businesses other than banking that are subject to a variety of risks.

Truist is a diversified financial services company and this diversity subjects the Company's earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. Other businesses in addition to banking that the Company operates include insurance, investment banking, securities underwriting and market making, loan syndications, investment management and advice and retail and wholesale brokerage services offered through the Company's subsidiaries. These businesses entail significant market, operational, credit, compliance, technology, legal and other risks that could materially adversely impact the Company's results of operations.

Reputational Risks

Negative public opinion could damage the Company's reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.

Truist's earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from the Company's actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending, sales and other operating practices, corporate governance, acquisitions, a breach of client or teammate information, the failure of any product or service sold to meet clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements. Negative public opinion could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain clients and personnel and can result in litigation and regulatory actions. Actual or alleged conduct by one of the Company's businesses can result in negative public opinion about the Company's other businesses. Actual or alleged conduct by another financial institution can result in negative public opinion about the financial services industry in general and, as a result, adversely affect Truist.

Scrutiny of the Company's sales, training and incentive compensation practices could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.

The Company may face increased scrutiny of the Company's sales and other business practices, training practices, incentive compensation design and governance, and quality assurance and client complaint resolution practices. There can be no assurance that the Company's processes and actions will meet regulatory standards or expectations. Findings from self-identified or regulatory reviews may require responsive actions, including increased investments in compliance systems and personnel or the payment of fines, penalties, increased regulatory assessments or client redress and may increase legal or reputational risk exposures.

Truist Financial Corporation   31

Operational Risks

Litigation may adversely affect the Company's results.

The Company is subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business. Claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by the Company's regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. The outcome of litigation and regulatory matters as well as the timing of ultimate resolution are inherently difficult to predict.

Actual legal and other costs of resolving claims may be greater than the Company's legal reserves. The ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.

In addition, governmental authorities have, at times, sought criminal penalties against companies in the financial services sector for violations, and, at times, have required an admission of wrongdoing from financial institutions in connection with resolving such matters. Criminal convictions or admissions of wrongdoing in a settlement with the government can lead to greater exposure in civil litigation and reputational harm.

Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against the Company could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm, which adversely impact the Company's business prospects. Further, the Company may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.

The Company may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, including inadvertent or unintentional violations.

Truist maintains systems and procedures designed to ensure that it complies with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. In addition to fines and penalties, the Company may suffer other negative consequences from regulatory violations including restrictions on certain activities, such as the Company's mortgage business, which may affect the Company's relationship with the GSEs and may also damage the Company's reputation and this in turn might materially affect the Company's business and results of operations.

Further, some legal frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even when the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even when there were systems and procedures in place designed to ensure compliance. For example, Truist is subject to regulations issued by OFAC that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. Courts may uphold significant additional penalties on financial institutions, even where the financial institution had already reimbursed the government or other counterparties for actual losses.

Truist relies on other companies to provide key components of the Company's business infrastructure.

Third parties provide key components of the Company's business infrastructure, such as banking services, data processing, business processes, internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect the Company's ability to deliver products and services to clients, to support teammates and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect the Company's business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. Further, in some instances, the Company may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulations. The Company is not insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in the Company's business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business.

Truist depends on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer.

The Company's success depends, to a large degree, on the continued services of executive officers and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. The Company's business could be adversely impacted from the loss of key persons or failure to manage a smooth transition to new personnel. These risks may be exacerbated as the Company continues to integrate processes and systems subsequent to the Merger.

32   Truist Financial Corporation

The Company may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of changes in the marketplace, which may increase costs and adversely impact the Company's ability to implement business strategies.

The Company's success depends upon the ability to attract and retain high performing, diverse and well-qualified personnel. The Company faces significant competition in the recruitment of highly motivated teammates that can deliver Truist's purpose, mission and values. The Company's ability to execute its business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if the Company is unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified teammates or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. The U.S. banking agencies have jointly issued comprehensive guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging teammates to take imprudent risks. This guidance significantly affects the amount, form and context of incentive compensation to teammates. The FRB, FDIC, SEC and other federal regulatory agencies have jointly proposed rules, which would affect incentive compensation. These rules, which have been pending for several years, if finalized, may result in additional costs and restrictions on the form of the Company's incentive compensation.

The Company's framework for managing risks may not be effective.

The Company's risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. Truist has established policies, processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which the Company is subject, including liquidity, credit, market, operational, technology, reputational, legal, model and compliance risk, among others. However, the Company's risk management measures may not be fully effective in identifying and mitigating the Company's risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated, even if the models for assessing risk are properly designed and implemented. Some of the Company’s methods of managing risk are based upon the Company's use of observed historical market behavior and management's judgment. These methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than historical measures indicate. If the Company's risk management framework proves ineffective, it could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.

There are risks resulting from the extensive use of models in Truist's business, which may impact decisions made by Management and regulators.

Truist relies on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting or estimating losses, assessing capital adequacy and calculating economic and regulatory capital levels, as well as estimating the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items.

Poorly designed or implemented models present the risk that Truist's business decisions based on information incorporating model output would be adversely affected due to the inadequacy of that information. Also, information Truist provides to the public or to its regulators based on poorly designed or implemented models could be inaccurate or misleading. Some of the decisions that the regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to Truist's shareholders, could be adversely affected due to the perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient.

The Company is at risk of increased losses from fraud.

Criminals committing fraud increasingly are using more sophisticated techniques and in some cases, are a part of larger criminal organizations, which allow them to be more effective. Fraudulent activity has taken many forms and escalates as more tools for accessing financial services emerge, such as real-time payments. Fraud schemes are broad and continuously evolving and include such things as debit card/credit card fraud, check fraud, mechanical devices attached to ATM machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information or impersonation of the Company's clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials. 

In addition, individuals or business entities may properly identify themselves, yet seek to establish a business relationship for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. Increased deployment of technologies, such as chip card technology, defray and reduce aspects of fraud; however, criminals are turning to other sources to steal personally identifiable information, such as unaffiliated healthcare providers and government entities, in order to impersonate the consumer to commit fraud. Further, as a result of the increased sophistication of fraud activity, the Company has increased spending on systems, resources and controls to detect and prevent fraud, as well as increased spending to provide certain credit monitoring and identity theft protection services to the Company's consumer clients. This will result in continued ongoing investments in the future.

Truist Financial Corporation   33

The Company's operational or security systems or infrastructure or those of third parties, could fail or be breached, which could disrupt the Company's business and adversely impact the Company's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as well as cause legal or reputational harm.

The potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout the Company's business and, as a result of the Company's interactions with and reliance on third parties, is not limited to the Company's own internal operational functions. The Company's operational and security systems and infrastructure, including computer systems, data management and internal processes, as well as those of third parties, are integral to the Company's performance. Truist teammates and third parties may expose the Company to risk as a result of human error, misconduct, malfeasance, or a failure or breach of systems and infrastructure. For example, the Company's ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions, including to third parties with whom the Company interacts with or relies upon. 

Natural disasters and other catastrophic events could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations or the Company’s financial condition and results.

The occurrence of catastrophic weather events or pandemics could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Truist has significant operations and clients along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts as well as other regions of the U.S., which could be adversely impacted by hurricanes, tornadoes and other severe weather in those areas. Truist’s clients could also be disrupted by the physical effects of climate change, which may become more frequent and intense. Natural and other types of disasters, including as a result of climate change, could have an adverse impact on Truist's businesses in that such events could materially disrupt the Company’s operations or the ability or willingness of the Company’s clients to access the financial services offered, including adverse impacts on the Company’s borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral held. These events could reduce the Company’s earnings and cause volatility in the Company’s financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

Although Truist has business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, the Company’s operations and communications may be adversely affected by natural disasters or other catastrophic events and there can be no assurance that such business continuity plans will be effective.

Truist may be impacted by the soundness of other financial institutions.

The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. Truist has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, central counterparties, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional investors and clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by Truist or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of the Company’s counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by Truist cannot be liquidated or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the Company’s exposure. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

Truist depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.

In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, Truist relies on the completeness and accuracy of representations made by and information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. If the information provided is not accurate or complete, the Company’s decisions about extending credit or entering into other transactions with clients or counterparties could be adversely affected and the Company could suffer defaults, credit losses or other negative consequences as a result.

The Company's accounting policies and processes are critical to how it reports the Company's financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.

Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of the Company’s assets or liabilities and financial results. Several of the Company’s accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If assumptions or estimates underlying the Company’s financial statements are incorrect or are adjusted periodically, the Company may experience material losses.

34   Truist Financial Corporation

Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the realization of income and expense or the recognition of assets and liabilities in the Company's financial statements. Truist has established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the Company’s judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, the Company cannot guarantee that adjustments to accounting policies or restatement of prior period financial statements will not be required. 

Further, from time to time, the FASB and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond the Company’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how the Company reports its financial results and condition. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. 

Depressed market values for the Company's stock and adverse economic conditions sustained over a period of time may require the Company to write down all or some portion of the Company's goodwill.

Goodwill is periodically tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount. If the fair value is greater than the carrying amount, then the reporting unit’s goodwill is deemed not to be impaired. The fair value of a reporting unit is impacted by the reporting unit’s expected financial performance and susceptibility to adverse economic, regulatory and legislative changes. Future adverse changes in economic conditions or expected financial performance may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to be below its carrying amount, resulting in goodwill impairment. The estimated fair values of the individual reporting units are assessed for reasonableness by reviewing a variety of indicators, including comparing these estimated fair values to the Company’s market capitalization over a reasonable period of time. While this comparison provides some relative market information about the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic environment. However, significant and sustained declines in the Company’s market capitalization could be an indication of potential goodwill impairment. Refer to the "Critical Accounting Policies" section for additional details related to the Company’s intangible assets policy.

Certain banking laws and certain provisions of the Company's articles of incorporation may have an anti-takeover effect.

Provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Company’s owners. Acquisition of certain amounts of any class of voting stock of a BHC or depository institution, including shares of the Company’s common stock, may create a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer "controls" the BHC or depository institution and thus, unless the acquirer is able to rebut this presumption, it would be subject to various laws and regulations applicable to a BHC. Also, a BHC must obtain the prior approval of the FRB before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including Truist Bank.

There also are provisions in the Company’s amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, such as limitations on the ability to call a special meeting of the Company’s shareholders, that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. In addition, the Company’s Board will be authorized under the Company’s amended and restated articles of incorporation to issue shares of the Company’s preferred stock and to determine the rights, terms, conditions and privileges of such preferred stock, without shareholder approval. These provisions may effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination.

Technology Risks

The Company faces cybersecurity risks, including denial of service, hacking and social engineering attacks that could result in the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect the Company's operations or reputation and create significant legal and financial exposure.

The Company’s computer systems and network infrastructure and those of third parties are frequently targeted in cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, malware intrusion, data corruption attempts, terrorist activities or identity theft. The Company’s business relies on the secure processing, transmission, storage and retrieval of confidential, proprietary and other information in the Company’s information systems and that of third parties. In addition, to access the Company’s network, products and services, the Company’s clients and other third parties may use personal mobile devices or computing devices that are outside of the Company’s network environment and can introduce added cybersecurity risks.

Truist Financial Corporation   35

Truist and Truist’s clients, regulators and other third parties, including other financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing, have been subject to and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber-attacks. Cyber-attacks may expose security vulnerabilities in the Company’s systems or the systems of third parties or other security measures that could result in the unauthorized gathering, monitoring, misuse, release, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary or sensitive information. A cyber-attack could also damage the Company’s systems by introducing material disruptions to the Company’s or the Company’s clients’ or other third parties’ network access or business operations. As cyber threats continue to evolve, the Company may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance the Company’s protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or incidents. Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of the Company’s systems and implement controls, processes, policies and other protective measures, the Company may not be able to anticipate all security breaches, nor may the Company be able to implement sufficient preventive measures against such security breaches, which may result in material losses or consequences to Truist.

Cybersecurity risks for financial institutions have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies to facilitate and conduct financial transactions. For example, cybersecurity risks may increase in the future as Truist continues to expand its mobile-payment and internet-based product offerings and expand the Company’s internal usage of web-based products and applications. In addition, cybersecurity risks have significantly increased in recent years in part due to the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime affiliates, terrorist organizations, hostile foreign governments, disgruntled teammates or vendors, activists and other external parties, including those involved in corporate espionage. Even the most advanced internal control environment may be vulnerable to compromise. Persistent attackers may succeed in penetrating defenses given enough resources, time and motive. The techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently, and may not be recognized until launched or well after a breach has occurred. In addition, the existence of cyber-attacks or security breaches at third party vendors with access to the Company’s data may not be disclosed in a timely manner.

The Company also faces indirect technology, cybersecurity and other operational risks relating to clients and other third parties that the Company relies upon to facilitate or enable business activities, including, financial counterparties, regulators and providers of critical infrastructure such as internet access and electrical power. In addition, Truist faces cybersecurity and other operational risks relating to the Merger, including increased phishing attacks on teammates, increased network perimeter scanning by attackers searching for vulnerabilities and domain name squatting. Further, as a result of increasing consolidation, interdependence and complexity of financial entities and technology systems, a technology failure, cyber-attack or other information or security breach that significantly degrades, deletes, or compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants. This consolidation, interconnectivity and complexity increases the risk of operational failure, on both individual and industry-wide bases, as disparate systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Any third party technology failure, cyber-attack, other information or security breach, termination, or constraint could, among other things, adversely affect the Company’s ability to conduct transactions, service the Company’s clients, manage the Company’s exposure to risk or expand the Company’s business.

The public perception that a cyber-attack on the Company’s systems has been successful, whether or not this perception is correct, may damage the Company’s reputation with clients and third parties with whom the Company does business. Hacking of personal information and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm. A successful penetration or circumvention of system security could cause serious negative consequences, including loss of clients and business opportunities; costs associated with maintaining business relationships after an attack or breach; significant disruption to the Company’s operations and business; misappropriation, exposure or destruction of the Company’s confidential information, intellectual property, funds and those of the Company’s clients; or damage to the Company’s or the Company’s clients’ or third parties’ computers or systems and could result in a violation of applicable privacy laws and other laws. This could result in litigation exposure, regulatory fines, penalties, loss of confidence in the Company’s security measures, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, additional compliance costs, which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In addition, the Company may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a cybersecurity event.

Truist will continually encounter technological change and must effectively develop and implement new technology.

The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Truist has invested in technology and connectivity to automate functions previously performed manually, to facilitate the ability of clients to engage in financial transactions and otherwise to enhance the client experience with respect to the Company’s products and services. Truist expects to make additional investments in innovation and technology to address technological disruption in the industry and improve client offerings and service. These changes allow the Company to better serve the Company’s clients and to reduce costs.

36   Truist Financial Corporation

The Company’s continued success depends, in part, upon the Company’s ability to address clients’ needs by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy client demands, including demands for faster and more secure payment services, to create efficiencies in the Company’s operations and to integrate those offerings with legacy platforms or to update those legacy platforms. A failure to maintain or enhance the Company’s competitive position with respect to technology, whether because of a failure to anticipate client expectations, a failure in the performance of technological developments or an untimely roll out of developments, may cause the Company to lose market share or incur additional expense.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Truist’s owns its headquarters building at 214 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, NC, 28202. Truist owns or leases free-standing operations centers, with its primary operations and information technology centers located in various locations in the Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic United States. Truist owns or leases retail branches and other offices in a number of states, primarily concentrated in the Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic United States. See Table 2 for a list of Truist's branches by state. Truist also operates numerous insurance agencies and other businesses that occupy facilities throughout the U.S. and Canada. Management believes that these premises are well-located and suitably equipped to serve as financial services facilities. See "Note 6. Premises and Equipment" for additional disclosures related to properties and other fixed assets. 

Truist Financial Corporation   37

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Truist's common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol "TFC." As of December 31, 2020, Truist's common stock was held by 92,600 registered shareholders.

Common Stock, Dividends and Share Repurchases

Truist's ability to pay dividends is primarily dependent on earnings from operations, the adequacy of capital and the availability of liquid assets for distribution and is subject to its capital plan meeting the SCB requirements from the FRB. Truist's ability to generate liquid assets for distribution is dependent on the ability of Truist Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Company. The payment of cash dividends is an integral part of providing a competitive return on shareholders' investments and needs to be balanced with maintaining sufficient capital to support future growth and meet regulatory requirements.

Management’s target common dividend payout ratio (computed by dividing common stock dividends by net income available to common shareholders) is between 30% and 50% during normal economic conditions. Truist's common dividend payout ratio was 58.0% in 2020 compared to 43.2% in 2019 and 39.3% in 2018. Management's target total payout ratio (computed by dividing the sum of common stock dividends declared and share repurchases, excluding shares repurchased in connection with equity awards, by net income available to common shareholders) is between 30% and 80% during normal economic conditions. Truist may consider higher total distributions based on its capital position, earnings and prevailing economic conditions. The total payout ratio was 58.0%, 43.2% and 78.7% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Truist expects common dividend declarations, if made, to occur in January, April, July and October with payment dates on or about the first of March, June, September and December. A discussion of dividend restrictions is included in "Note 17. Regulatory Requirements and Other Restrictions" and in the "Regulatory Considerations" section.

Share Repurchases

Truist has periodically repurchased shares of its own common stock. In accordance with North Carolina law, repurchased shares cannot be held as treasury stock, but revert to the status of authorized and unissued shares upon repurchase. Repurchases may be effected through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, trading plans established in accordance with SEC rules or other means. The timing and exact amount of repurchases are subject to various factors, including the Company's capital position, liquidity, financial performance, alternative uses of capital, stock trading price and general market conditions, and may be suspended at any time. Shares repurchased constitute authorized but unissued shares of the Company and are therefore available for future issuances. During 2020, the Company had no common stock repurchases, except shares exchanged or surrendered in connection with the exercise of equity-based awards under equity-based compensation plans.

In December 2020, Truist announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of the Company's common stock, beginning in the first quarter of 2021, consistent with recent FRB capital restriction guidance, to optimize Truist's capital position.

Table 6: Share Repurchase Activity

(Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands)

Total Shares Repurchased (1)

Average Price Paid Per Share (2)

Total Shares Repurchased Pursuant to Publicly-Announced Plan

Maximum Remaining Dollar Value of Shares Available for Repurchase Pursuant to Publicly-Announced Plan

November 2020

4 

$

43.47 

— 

$

— 

December 2020

— 

47.93 

— 

2,000 

Total

4 

43.64 

— 

(1)

Includes shares exchanged or surrendered in connection with the exercise of equity-based awards under equity-based compensation plans.

(2)

Excludes commissions. 

38   Truist Financial Corporation

Preferred Stock

Issuances

During 2020, Truist issued $3.5 billion in series O, series P, series Q and series R preferred stock, gross of issuance cost, to further strengthen its capital position. During 2019, the Company issued $1.7 billion of series N non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock.

Upon closing of the Merger, each outstanding share of SunTrust perpetual preferred stock was converted into the right to receive one share of an applicable newly issued series of Truist preferred stock having substantially the same terms as such share of SunTrust preferred stock. The Company issued series I, J, K, L and M non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock with a total par and fair value of $2.0 billion on the Merger closing date.

Redemptions

Early in 2021, the Company announced the forthcoming redemption of all 18,000 outstanding shares of its perpetual preferred stock series F and the corresponding depositary shares representing fractional interests in such series for $450 million and all 20,000 outstanding shares of its perpetual preferred stock series G and the corresponding depositary shares representing fractional interests in such series for $500 million.

During 2020, the Company redeemed all 5,000 outstanding shares of its perpetual preferred stock series K and the corresponding depositary shares representing fractional interests in such series for $500 million plus any unpaid dividends. The preferred stock redemption was in accordance with the terms of the Company’s Articles of Amendment to its Articles of Incorporation, effective as of December 6, 2019.

During 2019, the Company redeemed all 23,000 outstanding shares of series D and 46,000 outstanding shares of series E non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and the corresponding depositary shares representing fractional interests in each such series for $1.7 billion. In connection with the redemptions, net income available to common shareholders was reduced by $46 million to recognize the difference in the redemption price and the carrying value.

See "Note 12. Shareholders' Equity" for information about preferred stock and "Note 2. Business Combinations" for additional information related to the Merger.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

In connection with the Merger, each outstanding heritage SunTrust equity award granted under heritage SunTrust's equity compensation plans was converted into a corresponding award with respect to Company common stock, with the number of shares underlying such award (and, in the case of stock options, the applicable exercise price) adjusted based on the exchange ratio. Each such converted Company equity award will continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as applied to the corresponding heritage SunTrust equity award, except that, in the case of heritage SunTrust performance stock unit awards, the number of shares underlying the converted Company equity award was determined based on actual performance through September 30, 2019 and target performance for the balance of the applicable performance period and such award will continue to vest after the Merger solely based on continued service. The following table provides information concerning securities to be issued upon the exercise of outstanding equity-based awards as of December 31, 2020:

Table 7: Equity Compensation Plan Information

Plan Category

(a)(1)(2)

Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights

(b)(3)

Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights

(c)(4)

Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in (a))

Approved by security holders

13,220,891 

$

32.20 

8,876,596 

Not approved by security holders

7,469,504 

20.60 

10,938,274 

Total

20,690,395 

$

29.22 

19,814,870 

(1)

Includes 11,286,223 RSUs and PSUs in plans approved by security holders.

(2)

Plans not approved by security holders consists of 668,015 options outstanding with a weighted average exercise price of $20.60 and 6,801,489 RSUs for plans that were assumed in mergers and acquisitions.

(3)

Excludes RSUs and PSUs because they do not have an exercise price. 

(4)

Plans not approved by security holders consists of shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the 2012 Incentive Plan, as amended, in respect of shares reserved for issuance under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2018 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, which share reserve was assumed by the Company on December 6, 2019 in connection with the Merger. Awards with respect to such shares may only be granted to heritage SunTrust teammates.

Truist Financial Corporation   39

Performance Graph

The following graph and table compares the cumulative total returns (assuming concurrent $100 initial investments as of December 31, 2015 and reinvestment of dividends without commissions) of Truist common stock, the S&P 500 Index and an industry peer group. The companies in the peer group are Bank of America Corporation, Citizens Financial Group, Inc., Fifth Third Bancorp, JPMorgan Chase & Co, KeyCorp, M&T Bank Corporation, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., Regions Financial Corporation, U.S. Bancorp and Wells Fargo & Company.

Table 8: Cumulative Total Shareholder Return

Invested

Cumulative Total Return

As of / Through December 31,

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

Truist Financial Corporation

$

100.00 

$

128.47 

$

139.62 

$

125.35 

$

168.62 

$

149.85 

S&P 500 Index

100.00 

111.95 

136.38 

130.39 

171.44 

202.96 

Peer Group

100.00 

124.02 

151.70 

129.52 

179.98 

153.29 

40   Truist Financial Corporation

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

As of/ For the Year Ended December 31,

(Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands)

2020

2019

2018

2017

2016

Summary Income Statement:

 

 

 

 

 

Revenue -TE (1)

$

22,830

$

12,664

$

11,654

$

11,476

$

10,953

Less: TE adjustment (2)

125

96

96

159

160

Revenue-reported (1)

22,705

12,568

11,558

11,317

10,793

Provision for credit losses

2,335

615

566

547

572

Noninterest expense

14,897

7,934

6,932

7,444

6,721

Income before income taxes

5,473

4,019

4,060

3,326

3,500

Provision for income taxes

981

782

803

911

1,058

Net income

4,492

3,237

3,257

2,415

2,442

Noncontrolling interest

10

13

20

21

16

Preferred stock dividends

298

196

174

174

167

Net income available to common shareholders

4,184

3,028

3,063

2,220

2,259

Per Common Share:

 

 

 

 

 

Basic EPS

$

3.11 

$

3.76 

$

3.96 

$

2.78 

$

2.81 

Diluted EPS

3.08 

3.71 

3.91 

2.74 

2.77 

Cash dividends declared

1.80 

1.71 

1.56 

1.26 

1.15 

Common shareholders' equity

46.52 

45.66 

35.46 

34.01 

33.14 

Average Balances:

 

 

 

 

 

Total assets

$

499,085

$

247,494

$

222,273

$

221,065

$

218,945

Securities, at amortized cost (3)

83,227

50,645

47,100

46,029

46,279

Loans and leases (4)

314,501

161,604

146,417

144,075

141,759

Deposits

363,293

173,269

157,483

159,241

157,469

Long-term debt

45,793

24,756

23,755

21,660

22,791

Shareholders' equity

68,024

34,108

29,743

30,001

29,355

Period-End Balances:

 

 

Total assets

$

509,228

$

473,078

$

225,697

$

221,642

$

219,276

Securities (5)

120,788

74,727

45,590

47,574

43,606

Loans and leases (4)

305,793

308,215

150,001

144,800

145,038

Deposits

381,077

334,727

161,199

157,371

160,234

Long-term debt

39,597

41,339

23,709

23,648

21,965

Shareholders' equity

70,912

66,558

30,178

29,695

29,926

Selected Ratios:

 

 

NIM

3.22%

3.42%

3.46%

3.46%

3.39%

Rate of return on:

 

 

Average total assets

0.90

1.31

1.47

1.09

1.12

Average common shareholders' equity

6.82

9.87

11.50

8.25

8.57

Average total shareholders' equity

6.60

9.49

10.95

8.05

8.32

Average total shareholders' equity to average total assets

13.63

13.78

13.38

13.57

13.41

(1)

Revenue is defined as net interest income plus noninterest income.

(2)

TE adjustment is based on the federal income tax rate.

(3)

Include AFS and HTM securities.

(4)

Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include LHFS.

(5)

Includes AFS securities at fair value and HTM securities at amortized cost.

Truist Financial Corporation   41