>Item 7A







 







Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk







81










Item 8







 







Financial Statements and Supplementary Data







82













Item 9







 







Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure







82













Item 9A







 







Controls and Procedures







83













Item 9B







 







Other Information







83













 







 













PART III







 













Item 10







 







Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance







84













Item 11







 







Executive Compensation







84













Item 12







 







Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters







84













Item 13







 







Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence







84













Item 14







 







Principal Accountant Fees and Services







84













 







 













PART IV







 













Item 15







 







Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules







85













Item 16







 







Form 10-K Summary







90













 







 







 







 













SIGNATURES







91







 




This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2020. This Annual Report modifies and supersedes documents filed prior to this Annual Report. Information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this Annual Report.




In this Annual Report, “we,” “us,” “our” “UHS” and the “Company” refer to Universal Health Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries. UHS is a registered trademark of UHS of Delaware, Inc., the management company for, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Universal Health Services, Inc. Universal Health Services, Inc. is a holding company and operates through its subsidiaries including its management company, UHS of Delaware, Inc. All healthcare and management operations are conducted by subsidiaries of Universal Health Services, Inc. To the extent any reference to “UHS” or “UHS facilities” in this report including letters, narratives or other forms contained herein relates to our healthcare or management operations it is referring to Universal Health Services, Inc.’s subsidiaries including UHS of Delaware, Inc. Further, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” in such context similarly refer to the operations of Universal Health Services Inc.’s subsidiaries including UHS of Delaware, Inc. Any reference to employees or employment contained herein refers to employment with or employees of the subsidiaries of Universal Health Services, Inc. including UHS of Delaware, Inc.




 




 




 







 




 PART I
















ITEM 1.







Business




Our principal business is owning and operating, through our subsidiaries, acute care hospitals and outpatient facilities and behavioral health care facilities.  




As of February 25, 2021, we owned and/or operated 360 inpatient facilities and 39 outpatient and other facilities including the following located in 38 states, Washington, D.C., the United Kingdom and Puerto Rico:




Acute care facilities located in the U.S.:
















 







•







26 inpatient acute care hospitals;
















 







•







17 free-standing emergency departments, and;
















 







•







6 outpatient centers & 1 surgical hospital.




Behavioral health care facilities (334 inpatient facilities and 15 outpatient facilities): 




Located in the U.S.:
















 







•







185 inpatient behavioral health care facilities, and;
















 







•







12 outpatient behavioral health care facilities. 




Located in the U.K.:
















 







•







146 inpatient behavioral health care facilities, and;
















 







•







3 outpatient behavioral health care facilities.




Located in Puerto Rico:
















 







•







3 inpatient behavioral health care facilities.




As a percentage of our consolidated net revenues, net revenues from our acute care hospitals, outpatient facilities and commercial health insurer accounted for 55% during 2020, 54% during 2019 and 53% during 2018. Net revenues from our behavioral health care facilities and commercial health insurer accounted for 45% of our consolidated net revenues during 2020, 46% during 2019 and 47% during 2018.    




 




Our behavioral health care facilities located in the U.K. generated net revenues of approximately $584 million in 2020, $554 million in 2019 and $505 million in 2018. Total assets at our U.K. behavioral health care facilities were approximately $1.334 billion as of December 31, 2020, $1.270 billion as of December 31, 2019 and $1.224 billion as of December 31, 2018.  




Services provided by our hospitals include general and specialty surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, oncology, diagnostic care, coronary care, pediatric services, pharmacy services and/or behavioral health services. We provide capital resources as well as a variety of management services to our facilities, including central purchasing, information services, finance and control systems, facilities planning, physician recruitment services, administrative personnel management, marketing and public relations.




Available Information




We are a Delaware corporation that was organized in 1979. Our principal executive offices are located at Universal Corporate Center, 367 South Gulph Road, P.O. Box 61558, King of Prussia, PA 19406. Our telephone number is (610) 768-3300.




Our website is located at http://www.uhsinc.com. Copies of our annual, quarterly and current reports that we file with the SEC, and any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our website. Our filings are also available to the public at the website maintained by the SEC, 

www.sec.gov

. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. Our Board of Directors’ committee charters (Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating & Governance Committee), Code of Business Conduct and Corporate Standards applicable to all employees, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Conduct, Corporate Compliance Manual and Compliance Policies and Procedures are available free of charge on our website. Copies of such reports and charters are available in print to any stockholder who makes a request. Such requests should be made to our Secretary at our King of Prussia, PA corporate headquarters. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K relating to amendments to or waivers of any provision of our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers by promptly posting this information on our website.




In accordance with Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, we submitted our CEO’s certification to the New York Stock Exchange in 2020. Additionally, contained in Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 of this Annual Report on 




1







Form 10-K, are our CEO’s and CFO’s certifications regarding the quality of our public disclosures under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




Our Mission




Our company mission is:




To provide superior quality healthcare services that 




PATIENTS recommend to families and friends, 




PHYSICIANS prefer for their patients, 




PURCHASERS select for their clients, 




EMPLOYEES are proud of, and 




INVESTORS seek for long-term returns. 




To achieve this, we have a commitment to:
















 







•







service excellence
















 







•







continuous improvement in measurable ways
















 







•







employee development
















 







•







ethical and fair treatment of all
















 







•







teamwork
















 







•







compassion
















 







•







innovation in service delivery




Business Strategy




We believe community-based hospitals will remain the focal point of the healthcare delivery network and we are committed to a philosophy of self-determination for both the company and our hospitals.




 




Acquisition of Additional Hospitals.

  We selectively seek opportunities to expand our base of operations by acquiring, constructing or leasing additional hospital facilities. We are committed to a program of rational growth around our core businesses, while retaining the missions of the hospitals we manage and the communities we serve. Such expansion may provide us with access to new markets and new healthcare delivery capabilities. We also continue to examine our facilities and consider divestiture of those facilities that we believe do not have the potential to contribute to our growth or operating strategy. 

In recent years our behavioral health services segment has been focused on efforts to partner with non-UHS acute care hospitals to help operate their behavioral health services.  These arrangements include hospital purchases, leased beds and joint venture operating agreements.




Improvement of Operations of Existing Hospitals and Services.

  We also seek to increase the operating revenues and profitability of owned hospitals by the introduction of new services, improvement of existing services, physician recruitment and the application of financial and operational controls.




We are involved in continual development activities for the benefit of our existing facilities. From time to time applications are filed with state health planning agencies to add new services in existing hospitals in states which require certificates of need, or CONs. Although we expect that some of these applications will result in the addition of new facilities or services to our operations, no assurances can be made for ultimate success by us in these efforts.




Quality and Efficiency of Services.

  Pressures to contain healthcare costs and technological developments allowing more procedures to be performed on an outpatient basis have led payers to demand a shift to ambulatory or outpatient care wherever possible. We are responding to this trend by emphasizing the expansion of outpatient services. In addition, in response to cost containment pressures, we continue to implement programs at our facilities designed to improve financial performance and efficiency while continuing to provide quality care, including more efficient use of professional and paraprofessional staff, monitoring and adjusting staffing levels and equipment usage, improving patient management and reporting procedures and implementing more efficient billing and collection procedures. In addition, we will continue to emphasize innovation in our response to the rapid changes in regulatory trends and market conditions while fulfilling our commitment to patients, physicians, employees, communities and our stockholders.




2







In addition, our aggressive recruiting of highly qualified physicians and developing provider networks help to establish our facilities as an important source of quality healthcare in their respective communities.




Hospital Utilization




We believe that the most important factors relating to the overall utilization of a hospital include the quality and market position of the hospital and the number, quality and specialties of physicians providing patient care within the facility. Generally, we believe that the ability of a hospital to meet the health care needs of its community is determined by its breadth of services, level of technology, emphasis on quality of care and convenience for patients and physicians. Other factors that affect utilization include general and local economic conditions, market penetration of managed care programs, the degree of outpatient use, the availability of reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and demographic changes such as the growth in local populations. Utilization across the industry also is being affected by improvements in clinical practice, medical technology and pharmacology. Current industry trends in utilization and occupancy have been significantly affected by changes in reimbursement policies of third party payers. We are also unable to predict the extent to which these industry trends will continue or accelerate. In addition, our acute care services business is typically subject to certain seasonal fluctuations, such as higher patient volumes and net patient service revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year.




The following table sets forth certain operating statistics for hospitals operated by us for the years indicated. Accordingly, information related to hospitals acquired during the five-year period has been included from the respective dates of acquisition, and information related to hospitals divested during the five year period has been included up to the respective dates of divestiture.




 
















 







 







2020







 







 







2019







 







 







2018







 







 







2017







 







 







2016







 













Average Licensed Beds:







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Acute Care Hospitals







 







 







6,457







 







 







 







6,379







 







 







 







6,232







 







 







 







6,127







 







 







 







5,934







 













Behavioral Health Centers







 







 







23,661







 







 







 







23,812







 







 







 







23,509







 







 







 







23,151







 







 







 







21,829







 













Average Available Beds (1):







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Acute Care Hospitals







 







 







6,285







 







 







 







6,205







 







 







 







6,056







 







 







 







5,954







 







 







 







5,759







 













Behavioral Health Centers







 







 







23,559







 







 







 







23,711







 







 







 







23,425







 







 







 







23,068







 







 







 







21,744







 













Admissions:







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Acute Care Hospitals







 







 







286,535







 







 







 







317,983







 







 







 







303,985







 







 







 







297,390







 







 







 







274,074







 













Behavioral Health Centers







 







 







448,870







 







 







 







488,367







 







 







 







482,658







 







 







 







467,822







 







 







 







456,052







 













Average Length of Stay (Days):







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Acute Care Hospitals







 







 







5.1







 







 







 







4.6







 







 







 







4.5







 







 







 







4.4







 







 







 







4.6







 













Behavioral Health Centers







 







 







13.7







 







 







 







13.3







 







 







 







13.3







 







 







 







13.6







 







 







 







13.2







 













Patient Days (2):







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Acute Care Hospitals (1)







 







 







1,458,321







 







 







 







1,451,847







 







 







 







1,376,988







 







 







 







1,312,265







 







 







 







1,251,511







 













Behavioral Health Centers







 







 







6,142,823







 







 







 







6,487,707







 







 







 







6,418,334







 







 







 







6,381,756







 







 







 







6,004,066







 













Occupancy Rate-Licensed Beds (3):







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Acute Care Hospitals







 







 







62







%







 







 







62







%







 







 







61







%







 







 







59







%







 







 







58







%













Behavioral Health Centers







 







 







71







%







 







 







75







%







 







 







75







%







 







 







76







%







 







 







75







%













Occupancy Rate-Available Beds (3):







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 













Acute Care Hospitals







 







 







63







%







 







 







64







%







 







 







62







%







 







 







60







%







 







 







59







%













Behavioral Health Centers







 







 







71







%







 







 







75







%







 







 







75







%







 







 







76







%







 







 







75







%










 
















(1)







“Average Available Beds” is the number of beds which are actually in service at any given time for immediate patient use with the necessary equipment and staff available for patient care. A hospital may have appropriate licenses for more beds than are in service for a number of reasons, including lack of demand, incomplete construction, and anticipation of future needs.
















(2)







“Patient Days” is the sum of all patients for the number of days that hospital care is provided to each patient.
















(3)







“Occupancy Rate” is calculated by dividing average patient days (total patient days divided by the total number of days in the period) by the number of average beds, either available or licensed.




Sources of Revenue




We receive payments for services rendered from private insurers, including managed care plans, the federal government under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid programs and directly from patients. See 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Sources of Revenue

 for additional disclosure. Other information related to our revenues, income and other operating information for each reporting segment of our business is provided in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, 

Segment Reporting.




3







Regulation and Other Factors




Overview:

 The healthcare industry is subject to numerous laws, regulations and rules including, among others, those related to government healthcare participation requirements, various licensure and accreditations, reimbursement for patient services, health information privacy and security rules, and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse provisions (including, but not limited to, federal statutes and regulations prohibiting kickbacks and other illegal inducements to potential referral sources, false claims submitted to federal or state health care programs and self-referrals by physicians). Providers that are found to have violated any of these laws and regulations may be excluded from participating in government healthcare programs, subjected to significant fines or penalties and/or required to repay amounts received from the government for previously billed patient services. Although we believe our policies, procedures and practices comply with governmental regulations, no assurance can be given that we will not be subjected to additional governmental inquiries or actions, or that we would not be faced with sanctions, fines or penalties if so subjected. Even if we were to ultimately prevail, a significant governmental inquiry or action under one of the above laws, regulations or rules could have a material adverse impact on us.




Licensing, Certification and Accreditation:

 All of our U.S. hospitals are subject to compliance with various federal, state and local statutes and regulations in the U.S. and receive periodic inspection by state licensing agencies to review standards of medical care, equipment and cleanliness. Our hospitals must also comply with the conditions of participation and licensing requirements of federal, state and local health agencies, as well as the requirements of municipal building codes, health codes and local fire departments. Various other licenses and permits are also required in order to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate certain equipment.  Our facilities in the United Kingdom are also subject to various laws and regulations. 




All of our eligible hospitals have been accredited by The Joint Commission. All of our acute care hospitals and most of our behavioral health centers in the U.S. are certified as providers of Medicare and Medicaid services by the appropriate governmental authorities.




If any of our facilities were to lose its Joint Commission accreditation or otherwise lose its certification under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, the facility may be unable to receive reimbursement from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other payers. We believe our facilities are in substantial compliance with current applicable federal, state, local and independent review body regulations and standards. The requirements for licensure, certification and accreditation are subject to change and, in order to remain qualified, it may become necessary for us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel and services in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on operations.




Certificates of Need:

 Many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need (“CON”) laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. Failure to obtain necessary state approval can result in our inability to complete an acquisition, expansion or replacement, the imposition of civil or, in some cases, criminal sanctions, the inability to receive Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement or the revocation of a facility’s license, which could harm our business. In addition, significant CON reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. In the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations.




Conversion Legislation:

 Many states have enacted or are considering enacting laws affecting the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from the attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. In addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over these transactions. Although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation and the increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions may limit our ability to grow through acquisitions of not-for-profit hospitals.




Utilization Review:

 Federal regulations require that admissions and utilization of facilities by Medicare and Medicaid patients must be reviewed in order to ensure efficient utilization of facilities and services. The law and regulations require Peer Review Organizations (“PROs”) to review the appropriateness of Medicare and Medicaid patient admissions and discharges, the quality of care provided, the validity of diagnosis related group (“DRG”) classifications and the appropriateness of cases of extraordinary length of stay. PROs may deny payment for services provided, assess fines and also have the authority to recommend to the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) that a provider that is in substantial non-compliance with the standards of the PRO be excluded from participating in the Medicare program. We have contracted with PROs in each state where we do business to perform the required reviews.




Audits:

 Most hospitals are subject to federal audits to validate the accuracy of Medicare and Medicaid program submitted claims. If these audits identify overpayments, we could be required to pay a substantial rebate of prior years’ payments subject to 




4







various administrative appeal rights. The federal government contracts with third-party “recovery audit contractors” (“RACs”) and “Medicaid integrity contractors” (“MICs”), on a contingent fee basis, to audit the propriety of payments to Medicare and Medicaid providers. Similarly, Medicare zone program integrity contractors (“ZPICs”) target claims for potential fraud and abuse. Additionally, Medicare administrative contractors (“MACs”) must ensure they pay the right amount for covered and correctly coded services rendered to eligible beneficiaries by legitimate providers. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) announced its intent to consolidate many of these Medicare and Medicaid program integrity functions into new unified program integrity contractors (“UPICs”), though it remains unclear what effect, if any, this consolidation may have. We have undergone claims audits related to our receipt of federal healthcare payments during the last three years, the results of which have not required material adjustments to our consolidated results of operations. However, potential liability from future federal or state audits could ultimately exceed established reserves, and any excess could potentially be substantial. Further, Medicare and Medicaid regulations also provide for withholding Medicare and Medicaid overpayments in certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our cash flow.




Self-Referral and Anti-Kickback Legislation




The Stark Law:

 The Social Security Act includes a provision commonly known as the “Stark Law.” This law prohibits physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to entities with which they or any of their immediate family members have a financial relationship, unless an exception is met. These types of referrals are known as “self-referrals.” Sanctions for violating the Stark Law include civil penalties up to $25,820 for each violation, and up to $172,137 for sham arrangements. There are a number of exceptions to the self-referral prohibition, including an exception for a physician’s ownership interest in an entire hospital as opposed to an ownership interest in a hospital department unit, service or subpart. However, federal laws and regulations now limit the ability of hospitals relying on this exception to expand aggregate physician ownership interest or to expand certain hospital facilities. This regulation also places a number of compliance requirements on physician-owned hospitals related to reporting of ownership interest. There are also exceptions for many of the customary financial arrangements between physicians and providers, including employment contracts, leases and recruitment agreements that adhere to certain enumerated requirements.  CMS issued a final rule in 2020 that created a new Stark exception for value-based models. Although the final regulations provide exceptions to the Stark Law, there may remain regulatory risks for participating hospitals, as well as financial and operational risks.




We monitor all aspects of our business and have developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and industry standards. Nonetheless, because the law in this area is complex and constantly evolving, there can be no assurance that federal regulatory authorities will not determine that any of our arrangements with physicians violate the Stark Law.




Anti-kickback Statute:

 A provision of the Social Security Act known as the “anti-kickback statute” prohibits healthcare providers and others from directly or indirectly soliciting, receiving, offering or paying money or other remuneration to other individuals and entities in return for using, referring, ordering, recommending or arranging for such referrals or orders of services or other items covered by a federal or state health care program. However, changes to the anti-kickback statute have reduced the intent required for violation; one is no longer required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found in violation of such law.




The anti-kickback statute contains certain exceptions, and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”) has issued regulations that provide for “safe harbors,” from the federal anti-kickback statute for various activities. These activities, which must meet certain requirements, include (but are not limited to) the following: investment interests, space rental, equipment rental, practitioner recruitment, personnel services and management contracts, sale of practice, referral services, warranties, discounts, employees, group purchasing organizations, waiver of beneficiary coinsurance and deductible amounts, managed care arrangements, obstetrical malpractice insurance subsidies, investments in group practices, freestanding surgery centers, donation of technology for electronic health records and referral agreements for specialty services. In 2020, the OIG issued a final rule that established an anti-kickback statute safe harbor for value based models. Although the final regulations provide safe harbors, there may remain regulatory risks for participating hospitals, as well as financial and operational risks.  The fact that conduct or a business arrangement does not fall within a safe harbor or exception does not automatically render the conduct or business arrangement illegal under the anti-kickback statute. However, such conduct and business arrangements may lead to increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities.




Although we believe that our arrangements with physicians and other referral sources have been structured to comply with current law and available interpretations, there can be no assurance that all arrangements comply with an available safe harbor or that regulatory authorities enforcing these laws will determine these financial arrangements do not violate the anti-kickback statute or other applicable laws. Violations of the anti-kickback statute may be punished by a criminal fine of up to $100,000 for each violation or imprisonment, however, under 18 U.S.C. Section 3571, this fine may be increased to $250,000 for individuals and $500,000 for organizations. Civil money penalties may include fines of up to $104,330 per violation and damages of up to three times the total amount of the remuneration and/or exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid.




5







Similar State Laws:

 Many of the states in which we operate have adopted laws that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals similar to the anti-kickback statute and the Stark Law, some of which apply regardless of the source of payment for care. These statutes typically provide criminal and civil penalties as well as loss of licensure. In many instances, the state statutes provide that any arrangement falling in a federal safe harbor will be immune from scrutiny under the state statutes. However, in most cases, little precedent exists for the interpretation or enforcement of these state laws.




These laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in many cases, we don’t have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. It is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have violated one or more of these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws (see Item 3. Legal Proceedings), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be.




If we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the Stark Law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. The imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.




Federal False Claims Act and Similar State Regulations:

 A current trend affecting the health care industry is the increased use of the federal False Claims Act, and, in particular, actions being brought by individuals on the government’s behalf under the False Claims Act’s qui tam, or whistleblower, provisions. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government by alleging that the defendant has defrauded the Federal government.




When a defendant is determined by a court of law to have violated the False Claims Act, the defendant may be liable for up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $11,803 to $23,607 for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability often arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 (“FERA”) amended and expanded the number of actions for which liability may attach under the False Claims Act, eliminating requirements that false claims be presented to federal officials or directly involve federal funds. FERA also clarifies that a false claim violation occurs upon the knowing retention, as well as the receipt, of overpayments. In addition, recent changes to the anti-kickback statute have made violations of that law punishable under the civil False Claims Act. Further, a number of states have adopted their own false claims provisions as well as their own whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit on behalf of the state in state court. The False Claims Act require that federal healthcare program overpayments be returned within 60 days from the date the overpayment was identified, or by the date any corresponding cost report was due, whichever is later. Failure to return an overpayment within this period may result in additional civil False Claims Act liability.




Other Fraud and Abuse Provisions:

 The Social Security Act also imposes criminal and civil penalties for submitting false claims to Medicare and Medicaid. False claims include, but are not limited to, billing for services not rendered, billing for services without prescribed documentation, misrepresenting actual services rendered in order to obtain higher reimbursement and cost report fraud. Like the anti-kickback statute, these provisions are very broad.




Further, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) broadened the scope of the fraud and abuse laws by adding several criminal provisions for health care fraud offenses that apply to all health benefit programs, whether or not payments under such programs are paid pursuant to federal programs. HIPAA also introduced enforcement mechanisms to prevent fraud and abuse in Medicare. There are civil penalties for prohibited conduct, including, but not limited to billing for medically unnecessary products or services.




HIPAA Administrative Simplification and Privacy Requirements:

 The administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”), require the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for health care claims and payment transactions submitted or received electronically. These provisions are intended to encourage electronic commerce in the health care industry. HIPAA also established federal rules protecting the privacy and security of personal health information. The privacy and security regulations address the use and disclosure of individual health care information and the rights of patients to understand and control how such information is used and disclosed. Violations of HIPAA can result in both criminal and civil fines and penalties.




We believe that we are in material compliance with the privacy regulations of HIPAA, as we continue to develop training and revise procedures to address ongoing compliance. The HIPAA security regulations require health care providers to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of patient information. 




6







HITECH has since strengthened certain HIPAA rules regarding the use and disclosure of protected health information, extended certain HIPAA provisions to business associates, and created new security breach notification requirements. HITECH has also extended the ability to impose civil money penalties on providers not knowing that a HIPAA violation has occurred. We believe that we have been in substantial compliance with HIPAA and HITECH requirements to date. Recent changes to the HIPAA regulations may result in greater compliance requirements for healthcare providers, including expanded obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf.




Red Flags Rule:

 In addition, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) Red Flags Rule requires financial institutions and businesses maintaining accounts to address the risk of identity theft. The Red Flag Program Clarification Act of 2010, signed on December 18, 2010, appears to exclude certain healthcare providers from the Red Flags Rule, but permits the FTC or relevant agencies to designate additional creditors subject to the Red Flags Rule through future rulemaking if the agencies determine that the person in question maintains accounts subject to foreseeable risk of identity theft. Compliance with any such future rulemaking may require additional expenditures in the future.




Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005:

 On July 29, 2005, the Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 was enacted, which has the goal of reducing medical errors and increasing patient safety. This legislation establishes a confidential reporting structure in which providers can voluntarily report “Patient Safety Work Product” (“PSWP”) to “Patient Safety Organizations” (“PSOs”). Under the system, PSWP is made privileged, confidential and legally protected from disclosure. PSWP does not include medical, discharge or billing records or any other original patient or provider records but does include information gathered specifically in connection with the reporting of medical errors and improving patient safety. This legislation does not preempt state or federal mandatory disclosure laws concerning information that does not constitute PSWP. PSOs are certified by the Secretary of the HHS for three-year periods and analyze PSWP, provide feedback to providers and may report non-identifiable PSWP to a database. In addition, PSOs are expected to generate patient safety improvement strategies.




Environmental Regulations:

 Our healthcare operations generate medical waste that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations. Infectious waste generators, including hospitals, face substantial penalties for improper disposal of medical waste, including civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day of noncompliance, criminal penalties of up to $50,000 per day, imprisonment, and remedial costs. In addition, our operations, as well as our purchases and sales of facilities are subject to various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. We believe that our disposal of such wastes is in material compliance with all state and federal laws.




Corporate Practice of Medicine:

 Several states, including Florida, Nevada, California and Texas, have laws and/or regulations that prohibit corporations and other entities from employing physicians and practicing medicine for a profit or that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between health care providers that are designed to induce or encourage the referral of patients to, or the recommendation of, particular providers for medical products and services. Possible sanctions for violation of these restrictions include loss of license and civil and criminal penalties. In addition, agreements between the corporation and the physician may be considered void and unenforceable. These statutes and/or regulations vary from state to state, are often vague and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. We do not expect these state corporate practice of medicine proscriptions to significantly affect our operations. Many states have laws and regulations which prohibit payments for referral of patients and fee-splitting with physicians. We do not make any such payments or have any such arrangements.




EMTALA:

 All of our hospitals are subject to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (“EMTALA”). This federal law generally requires hospitals with an emergency department that are certified providers under Medicare to conduct a medical screening examination of every person who visits the hospital’s emergency room for treatment and, if the patient is suffering from a medical emergency, to either stabilize the patient’s condition or transfer the patient to a facility that can better handle the condition. Our obligation to screen and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists regardless of a patient’s ability to pay for treatment. There are severe penalties under EMTALA if a hospital fails to screen or appropriately stabilize or transfer a patient or if the hospital delays appropriate treatment in order to first inquire about the patient’s ability to pay. Penalties for violations of EMTALA include civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In addition to any liabilities that a hospital may incur under EMTALA, an injured patient, the patient’s family or a medical facility that suffers a financial loss as a direct result of another hospital’s violation of the law can bring a civil suit against the hospital unrelated to the rights granted under that statute.




The federal government broadly interprets EMTALA to cover situations in which patients do not actually present to a hospital’s emergency room, but present for emergency examination or treatment to the hospital’s campus, generally, or to a hospital-based clinic that treats emergency medical conditions or are transported in a hospital-owned ambulance, subject to certain exceptions. EMTALA does not generally apply to patients admitted for inpatient services; however, CMS has sought industry comments on the potential applicability of EMTALA to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively. CMS has not yet issued regulations or guidance in response to that request for comments. The government also has expressed its intent to investigate and enforce EMTALA violations actively in the future. We believe that we operate in substantial compliance with EMTALA.




7







Health Care Industry Investigations:

 We are subject to claims and suits in the ordinary course of business, including those arising from care and treatment afforded by our hospitals and are party to various government investigations and litigation. Please see 

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

 included herein for additional disclosure. In addition, currently, and from time to time, some of our facilities are subjected to inquiries and/or actions and receive notices of potential non-compliance of laws and regulations from various federal and state agencies. Providers that are found to have violated these laws and regulations may be excluded from participating in government healthcare programs, subjected to potential licensure, certification, and/or accreditation revocation, subjected to fines or penalties or required to repay amounts received from the government for previously billed patient services.




We monitor all aspects of our business and have developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and industry standards. Because the law in this area is complex and constantly evolving, governmental investigation or litigation may result in interpretations that are inconsistent with industry practices, including ours. Although we believe our policies, procedures and practices comply with governmental regulations, no assurance can be given that we will not be subjected to inquiries or actions, or that we will not be faced with sanctions, fines or penalties in connection with the investigations. Even if we were to ultimately prevail, the government’s inquiry and/or action in connection with these matters could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results.




Our substantial Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental billings may result in heightened scrutiny of our operations. It is possible that governmental entities could initiate additional investigations or litigation in the future and that such matters could result in significant penalties as well as adverse publicity. It is also possible that our executives and/or managers could be included as targets or witnesses in governmental investigations or litigation and/or named as defendants in private litigation.




Revenue Rulings 98-15 and 2004-51:

 In March 1998 and May 2004, the IRS issued guidance regarding the tax consequences of joint ventures between for-profit and not-for-profit hospitals. As a result of the tax rulings, the IRS has proposed, and may in the future propose, to revoke the tax-exempt or public charity status of certain not-for-profit entities which participate in such joint ventures or to treat joint venture income as unrelated business taxable income to them. The tax rulings have limited development of joint ventures and any adverse determination by the IRS or the courts regarding the tax-exempt or public charity status of a not-for-profit partner or the characterization of joint venture income as unrelated business taxable income could further limit joint venture development with not-for-profit hospitals, and/or require the restructuring of certain existing joint ventures with not-for-profits.




State Rate Review:

 Some states where we operate hospitals have adopted legislation mandating rate or budget review for hospitals or have adopted taxes on hospital revenues, assessments or licensure fees to fund indigent health care within the state. In the aggregate, state rate reviews and indigent tax provisions have not materially, adversely affected our results of operations.




Medical Malpractice Tort Law Reform:

 Medical malpractice tort law has historically been maintained at the state level. All states have laws governing medical liability lawsuits. Over half of the states have limits on damages awards. Almost all states have eliminated joint and several liability in malpractice lawsuits, and many states have established limits on attorney fees. Many states had bills introduced in their legislative sessions to address medical malpractice tort reform. Proposed solutions include enacting limits on non-economic damages, malpractice insurance reform, and gathering lawsuit claims data from malpractice insurance companies and the courts for the purpose of assessing the connection between malpractice settlements and premium rates. Reform legislation has also been proposed, but not adopted, at the federal level that could preempt additional state legislation in this area.




Compliance Program:

 Our company-wide compliance program has been in place since 1998. Currently, the program’s elements include a Code of Conduct, risk area specific policies and procedures, employee education and training, an internal system for reporting concerns, auditing and monitoring programs, and a means for enforcing the program’s policies.




Since its initial adoption, the compliance program continues to be expanded and developed to meet the industry’s expectations and our needs. Specific written policies, procedures, training and educational materials and programs, as well as auditing and monitoring activities have been prepared and implemented to address the functional and operational aspects of our business. Specific areas identified through regulatory interpretation and enforcement activities have also been addressed in our program. Claims preparation and submission, including coding, billing, and cost reports, comprise the bulk of these areas. Financial arrangements with physicians and other referral sources, including compliance with anti-kickback and Stark laws and emergency department treatment and transfer requirements are also the focus of policy and training, standardized documentation requirements, and review and audit.




United Kingdom Regulation: 

Our operations in the United Kingdom are also subject to a high level of regulation relating to registration and licensing requirements, employee regulation, clinical standards, environmental rules as well as other areas. We are also subject to a highly regulated business environment, and failure to comply with the various laws and regulations applicable to us could lead to substantial penalties and other adverse effects on our business.




8







Human Capital Management




Employees and Medical Staff




As of early February, 2021, we had approximately 89,000 total employees consisting of: (i) approximately 78,800 employees located in the U.S., of which approximately 57,900 were employed full-time, and; (ii) approximately 10,200 employees located in the U.K.  Our hospitals are staffed by licensed physicians who have been admitted to the medical staff of individual hospitals. In a number of our markets, physicians may have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to ours. Within our acute care division, approximately 310 physicians are employed by physician practice management subsidiaries of ours either directly or through contracts with affiliated group practices structured as 501A corporations. Members of the medical staffs of our hospitals also serve on the medical staffs of hospitals not owned by us and may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. In addition, within our behavioral health division, approximately 510 psychiatrists are employed by subsidiaries of ours either directly or through contracts with affiliated group practices structured as 501A corporations. Each of our hospitals is managed on a day-to-day basis by a managing director employed by a subsidiary of ours. In addition, a Board of Governors, including members of the hospital’s medical staff, governs the medical, professional and ethical practices at each hospital. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory. 




Labor Relations




Approximately 1,725 of our employees at five of our hospitals are unionized. At Valley Hospital Medical Center, housekeeping and dietary employees are represented by the Culinary Workers and Bartenders Union, engineers are represented by the International Union of Operating Engineers and Registered Nurses are represented by the Service Employees International Union (“SEIU”).  Engineers at Desert Springs Hospital are represented by the International Union of Operating Engineers and Registered Nurses and Technical employees are represented by the SEIU. At the Psychiatric Institute of Washington, clinical, clerical, support and maintenance employees are represented by the Communication Workers of America (AFL-CIO). Registered Nurses, Licensed Practical Nurses, certain technicians and therapists and some clerical employees at HRI Hospital in Boston are represented by the Service Employees International Union. At Brooke Glen Behavioral Hospital, unionized employees are represented by the Teamsters and the Northwestern Nurses Association/Pennsylvania Association of Staff Nurses and Allied Professionals.




Culture and Work Environment




Our commitment to “Service Excellence” serves as the foundation of our culture and is defined as providing world-class service that is professional, timely, effective and efficient to all of our customer groups at all times.  Serving as the foundation of our company mission, vision, and principles, Service Excellence is the way we approach every human interaction at our company, all the time, every day.




All new employees participate in a Service Excellence training session.  Employees learn what Service Excellence means at our company and develop an action plan on how to apply this to their everyday work. The individual action plan is mutually shared and maintained with employees and their managers.




To recruit and retain a diverse and talented workforce, we continuously monitor and update our competitive compensation and benefit packages. We regularly survey our employees to obtain their views and assess employee satisfaction. We use the views expressed in the surveys to assess and update our people strategy and policies. 




Ethical Standards




We set high ethical standards for ourselves because caring for our patients is a sacred trust. We are committed to fostering a culture of accountability at all levels and encourage our employees to report anything they believe could be out of compliance with our values. We provide protected ways for them to do that.




Our commitment to fairness and integrity extends to everyone with whom we interact and do business.




Diversity and Inclusion




We know that the quality of the patient experience is driven by the personal compassion, competence and commitment our team members deliver every day.  We value each member of our team and are committed to treating everyone with dignity and respect.  A collaborative approach among our staff is encouraged because we all share the goal of providing superior quality patient care and support to families and loved ones.




Health and Safety




Policies and training programs to encourage work safety are a major focus in our organization.  During 2020, our increased attention to workplace safety has enabled us to continue our commitment to keeping our employees and facilities safe during the COVID-19 pandemic.




Employee Development




We have a number of employee and leadership development programs in place to strengthen our company, help further our employees’ personal career goals and assist with succession planning. We encourage employees to take charge of their career 




9







development and set objectives in partnership with their managers. We train managers to partner with employees and support them in their efforts.




We utilize various methods for personal and technical development: on-demand videos, webinars, classroom trainings, coaching, and more. We also offer tuition reimbursement as a part of our benefits program.




Equal Employment Opportunity




We are committed to the principle of Equal Employment Opportunity for all employees and applicants.  It is our policy to ensure that both current and prospective employees receive equal employment opportunity without consideration of race, religion, color, national origin, nationality, ancestry, age, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, or disability in accordance with local, state and federal laws.




Employee Assistance – The UHS Foundation




During 2020, the UHS Foundation, which was previously established to assist our employees that are significantly impacted by various events such as FEMA-qualified natural disasters and presidential-declared natural disasters, 

expanded eligibility to provide financial support for UHS employees and their families who were significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. 




During the year, in response to the COVID 19 pandemic, the base salaries of all of our executive and non-executive officers, as well as certain other members of our senior management team, were be reduced by various percentages.  In turn, we contributed the funds generated from these base salary reductions to the UHS Foundation. In addition, the UHS Foundation also received voluntary contributions from other employees and various other parties, including members of our Board of Directors.    




Utilizing funds from the UHS Foundation, we worked with impacted employees to cover the employee cost-share for benefits throughout COVID-19.  In addition, we also deployed the ‘UHS Resource Guide, a consolidated one-stop access to the benefits, resources, and support tools available across the organization. In addition, we also expanded resources through our employee assistance program, with a particular focus on emotional wellness and COVID-19 support for our front-line healthcare workers.




Competition




The health care industry is highly competitive. In recent years, competition among healthcare providers for patients has intensified in the United States due to, among other things, regulatory and technological changes, increasing use of managed care payment systems, cost containment pressures and a shift toward outpatient treatment. In all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other facilities that provide services comparable to those offered by our facilities. In addition, some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sale and income taxes. Such exemptions and support are not available to us.




In some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than us. Certain hospitals that are located in the areas served by our facilities are specialty or large hospitals that provide medical, surgical and behavioral health services, facilities and equipment that are not available at our hospitals. The increase in outpatient treatment and diagnostic facilities, outpatient surgical centers and freestanding ambulatory surgical also increases competition for us.  In addition, some of our hospitals face competition from hospitals or surgery centers that are physician owned.




The number and quality of the physicians on a hospital’s staff are important factors in determining a hospital’s success and competitive advantage. Typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. We believe that physicians refer patients to a hospital primarily on the basis of the patient’s needs, the quality of other physicians on the medical staff, the location of the hospital and the breadth and scope of services offered at the hospital’s facilities. We strive to retain and attract qualified doctors by maintaining high ethical and professional standards and providing adequate support personnel, technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians.




In addition, we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other health care professionals. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. Our acute care and behavioral health care facilities are experiencing the effects of a shortage of skilled nursing staff nationwide, which has caused and may continue to cause an increase in salaries, wages and benefits expense in excess of the inflation rate. In addition, in some markets like California, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues.




Many states in which we operate hospitals have CON laws. The application process for approval of additional covered services, new facilities, changes in operations and capital expenditures is, therefore, highly competitive in these states. In those states that do not have CON laws or which set relatively high levels of expenditures before they become reviewable by state authorities, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. See “Regulation and Other Factors.”




10







Our ability to negotiate favorable service contracts with purchasers of group health care services also affects our competitive position and significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Managed care plans attempt to direct and control the use of hospital services and to demand that we accept lower rates of payment. In addition, employers and traditional health insurers are increasingly interested in containing costs through negotiations with hospitals for managed care programs and discounts from established charges. In return, hospitals secure commitments for a larger number of potential patients. Generally, hospitals compete for service contracts with group health care service purchasers on the basis of price, market reputation, geographic location, quality and range of services, quality of the medical staff and convenience. The importance of obtaining contracts with managed care organizations varies from market to market depending on the market strength of such organizations.




A key element of our growth strategy is expansion through the acquisition of additional hospitals in select markets. The competition to acquire hospitals is significant. We face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We intend to selectively seek opportunities to expand our base of operations by adhering to our disciplined program of rational growth, but may not be successful in accomplishing acquisitions on favorable terms.




Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust




At December 31, 2020, we held approximately 

5.7

% of the outstanding shares of Universal Health Realty Income Trust (the “Trust”). We serve as Advisor to the Trust under an annually renewable advisory agreement, which is scheduled to expire on December 31

st

 of each year, pursuant to the terms of which we conduct the Trust’s day-to-day affairs, provide administrative services and present investment opportunities. The advisory agreement was renewed by the Trust for 2021 at the same rate as the prior three years, providing for an advisory computation at 

0.70

% of the Trust’s average invested real estate assets. We earned an advisory fee from the Trust, which is included in net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income, of approximately $

4.1

 million during 2020, $

4.0

 million during 2019 and $

3.8

 million during 2018.




In addition, certain of our officers and directors are also officers and/or directors of the Trust. Management believes that it has the ability to exercise significant influence over the Trust, therefore we account for our investment in the Trust using the equity method of accounting.




Our pre-tax share of income from the Trust was $

1.1

 million during each of 2020 and 2019 and $1.4 million during 2018, which are included in other income, net, on the accompanying consolidated statements of income for each year. We received dividends from the Trust amounting to $2.2 million during 2020 and $

2.1

 million during each of 2019 and 2018.   




The carrying value of our investment in the Trust was $

5.4

 million and $

6.4

 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and is included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The market value of our investment in the Trust was $

50.6

 million at December 31, 2020 and $

92.4

 million at December 31, 2019, based on the closing price of the Trust’s stock on the respective dates.




The Trust commenced operations in 1986 by purchasing certain hospital properties from us and immediately leasing the properties back to our respective subsidiaries. Most of the leases were entered into at the time the Trust commenced operations and provided for initial terms of 

13

 to 

15

 years

 with up to six additional 5-year renewal terms. Each lease also provided for additional or bonus rental, as discussed below. The base rents are paid monthly and the bonus rents are computed and paid on a quarterly basis, based upon a computation that compares current quarter revenue to a corresponding quarter in the base year. The leases with those subsidiaries are unconditionally guaranteed by us and are cross-defaulted with one another.




11







Total rent expense under the operating leases on the 

three

 

wholly-owned

 

hospital facilities with the Trust was $17.1 million, $

16.4

 million and $

16.0

 million during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Pursuant to the terms of the three hospital leases with the Trust, we have the option to renew the leases at the lease terms described above and below by providing notice to the Trust at least 

90 days

 prior to the termination of the then current term. We also have the right to purchase the respective leased 

hospitals at their appraised fair market value upon any of the following: (

i

) 

at the end of the lease terms or any renewal terms

; (ii) 

upon one month’s notice should a change of control of the Trust occur

, or; (iii) within the time period as specified in the lease in the event that we provide notice to the Trust of our intent to offer a substitution property/properties in exchange for one (or more) of the three hospital properties leased from the Trust should we be unable to reach an agreement with the Trust on the properties to be substituted.

  In addition, we have rights of first refusal to: (

i

) purchase the respective leased facilities during and for 

180 days

 after the lease terms at the same price, terms and conditions of any third-party offer, or; (ii) renew the lease on the respective leased facility at the end of, and for 180 days after, the lease term at the same terms and conditions pursuant to any third-party offer. 




The table below details the renewal options and terms for each of our three wholly-owned acute care hospital facilities leased from the Trust:




 
















Hospital Name







 







 







Annual




Minimum




Rent







 







 







End of Lease Term







 







Renewal




Term




(years)







 







 













McAllen Medical Center







 







 







$







5,485,000







 







 







December, 2026







 







 







5







 







(a)













Wellington Regional Medical Center







 







 







$







3,030,000







 







 







December, 2021







 







 







10







 







(b)













Southwest Healthcare System, Inland Valley Campus







 







 







$







2,648,000







 







 







December, 2021







 







 







10







 







(b)










 
















(a)







We have one 5-year renewal option at existing lease rates (through 2031).
















(b)







We have two 5-year renewal options at fair market value lease rates (2022 through 2031).




The existing lease on Southwest Healthcare System, Inland Valley Campus is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2021 and we are considering terminating the lease at that time.  As permitted pursuant to the terms of the lease, we have the right to purchase the leased property at its appraised fair market value at the end of the existing lease term.  However, we are planning to offer the Trust potential substitution properties, with a fair market value substantially equal to that of the existing leased property, in exchange for the Inland Valley Campus.  We expect to submit our proposal to the Trust, which is subject to the Trust’s approval, during the first quarter of 2021.  Should a property substitution agreement be reached with the Trust, we anticipate that the transaction would be effective December 31, 2021, upon expiration of the existing lease on the Inland Valley Campus.  We can provide no assurance that we will ultimately agree on a property substitution with the Trust in connection with the Inland Valley Campus.   




In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are tenants in various medical office buildings and two free-standing emergency departments owned by the Trust or by limited liability companies in which the Trust holds 95% to 100% of the ownership interest.  




During the third quarter of 2019, the Trust commenced construction on a new 

75,000

 rentable square feet MOB that is located on the campus of Texoma Medical Center, a hospital that is owned and operated by one of our subsidiaries.  The construction on this MOB was substantially completed in December, 2020.  In connection with this MOB, a master flex lease was executed between a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours and a Trust limited partnership that owns the MOB.  Pursuant to the terms of this master flex lease, our subsidiary will master lease approximately 

50

% of the rentable square feet of the MOB, allocated to specific floors of the building, which could be reduced during the term if certain conditions are met, for a ten-year term at an initial minimum annual rent of $

644,000

. As of December 31, 2020, as a result of fully executed leases between the Trust and third-party tenants, the master lease flex commitment has been reduced to 5,840 rentable square feet on the third floor of the MOB.




During the third quarter of 2019, a joint-venture agreement between us and a non-related third-party was finalized in connection with the development of a newly constructed behavioral health care facility located in Clive, Iowa.  Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we hold a majority ownership interest in the venture and will act as manager of the facility when completed and opened.  This joint-venture also entered into an agreement with the Trust whereby a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Trust constructed the 

100

-bed behavioral health care hospital, which was substantially completed in December, 2020 and the property received a temporary certificate of occupancy on December 31, 2020.   Upon completion and issuance of the temporary certificate of occupancy, the joint venture lease from the Trust commenced pursuant to a 20-year, triple net lease with 

five

, 10-year renewal options.  Construction of the approximately 82,000 square foot hospital was managed by a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours for an aggregate fee of approximately $

750,000

. The approximate cost of the project is estimated at $

35.1

 million and the initial annual rent is estimated at approximately $

2.5

 million.




Executive Officers of the Registrant




The executive officers, whose terms will expire at such time as their successors are elected, are as follows:




 
















Name and Age







 







Present Position with the Company













Marc D. Miller (50)







 







Chief Executive Officer, President and Director













Alan B. Miller (83)







 







Executive Chairman of the Board













Steve G. Filton (63)







 







Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary













Marvin G. Pember (67)







 







Executive Vice President, President of Acute Care Division













Matthew J. Peterson (51)







 







Executive Vice President, President of Behavioral Health Division










 




Mr. Marc D. Miller was appointed Chief Executive Officer and President effective January 1, 2021.  He has served as President since May, 2009 and prior thereto served as Senior Vice President and co-head of our Acute Care Hospitals since 2007. He was elected a Director in May, 2006 and Vice President in 2005. He has served in various capacities related to our acute care division since 2000. He was elected to the Board of Trustees of Universal Health Realty Income Trust in December, 2008. In August, 2015, he was appointed to the Board of Directors of Premier, Inc., a publicly traded healthcare performance improvement alliance.  See Note 9 to 




12







the Consolidated Financial Statements-

Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust and Other Related Party Transactions

 for additional disclosure regarding the Company’s group purchasing organization agreement with Premier, Inc. Marc D. Miller is the son of Alan B. Miller, our 

Executive 

Chairman of the Board

. 




Mr. Alan B. Miller was appointed Executive Chairman of the Board effective January 1, 2021. He had been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since the Company’s inception and also served as President from inception until May, 2009. Prior thereto, he was President, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of American Medicorp, Inc. He currently serves as Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Universal Health Realty Income Trust. He is the father of Marc D. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Director.




Mr. Filton was elected Executive Vice President in 2017 and continues to serve as Chief Financial Officer since his appointment in 2003. He has also served as Secretary since 1999.  He had served as Senior Vice President since 2003, as Vice President and Controller since 1991, and as Director of Corporate Accounting since 1985.




Mr. Pember was elected Executive Vice President in 2017 and continues to serve as President of our Acute Care Division since commencement of his employment with us in 2011.  He had served as Senior Vice President since 2011.  He was formerly employed for 12 years at Indiana University Health, Inc. (formerly known as Clarian Health Partners, Inc.), a nonprofit hospital system that operates multiple facilities in Indiana, where he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.




Mr. Peterson’s employment with us commenced in September, 2019 as Executive Vice President and President of our Behavioral Health Division.  He was formerly employed at UnitedHealth Group for 11 years serving in various capacities including Chief Operating Officer for OptumGovernment, a health services and technology company, as well as various other Senior Vice President/Vice President roles.  In addition to his civilian business career, Mr. Peterson has served for nearly 30 years as a member of the United States Military, currently a Colonel and hospital/healthcare administrator in the Air National Guard.    
















ITEM 1A.







Risk Factors




We are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations.




Risks Related to Business Operations




A significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in Texas, Nevada and California.




Texas:

 We own 7 inpatient acute care hospitals and 22 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in 

Item 2. Properties

. On a combined basis, these facilities contributed 16% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2020, 2019 and 2018.  On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 13% in 2020, 14% in 2019 and 12% in 2018, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.




Nevada:

 We own 8 inpatient acute care hospitals and 4 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in 

Item 2. Properties

. On a combined basis, these facilities contributed 17% of our consolidated net revenues during 2020, 18% in 2019 and 17% during 2018.  On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 17% in 2020, 23% in 2019 and 24% in 2018, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. Effective January, 2020, United/Sierra Healthcare in Las Vegas, entered into an agreement with a competitor health system that was previously excluded from their contractual network in the area. As a result, we believe that our 6 acute care hospitals in the Las Vegas, Nevada market, will likely experience a decline in patient volumes.  However, we have entered into an amended agreement with United/Sierra Healthcare related to our hospitals in the Las Vegas market that provided for various rate increases that began in January, 2020. Although we estimate that the unfavorable impact of the projected declines in patient volumes should be largely offset by the favorable impact of the increased rates, we can provide no assurance that these developments on the Las Vegas market, will not have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations.




California:

 We own 5 inpatient acute care hospitals and 7 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in 

Item 2. Properties

. On a combined basis, these facilities contributed 11% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2020, 2019 and 2018. On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 20% in 2020, 17% in 2019 and 16% in 2018 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.




The significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in Texas, Nevada and California. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results.




13







Our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other 

third party

 payers.




We derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payers, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. Payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. In addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, the vast majority of the net revenues generated at our behavioral health facilities located in the United Kingdom are derived from governmental payers. If the rates paid or the scope of services covered by governmental payers in the United States or United Kingdom are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.




We receive Medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of California, Texas, Nevada, Washington, D.C., Pennsylvania, Illinois and Massachusetts, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in Medicaid and other state based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states.




In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payers, including managed care organizations, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Private payers, including managed care organizations, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment.




We expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations.




If we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors.




In recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. CMS publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the Medicare program. Federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. Additionally, the Legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. Also, the No Surprises Act, adopted as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (“CAA”), creates additional price transparency requirements beginning January 1, 2022, including requiring providers to send health plans of insured patients and uninsured patients a good faith estimate of the expected charges and diagnostic codes prior to the scheduled date of the service or item. If any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. This circumstance could harm our business and results of operations.




An increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations.




Collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient’s responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. However, we also have substantial receivables due to us from certain state-based funding programs. We estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payer mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. Significant changes in business office operations, payer mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. If we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed.




Our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers.




The healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. In all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other facilities that provide services comparable to those offered by our facilities. Some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. Such exemptions and support are not available to us.




14







In some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we offer. The number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment.




We also operate health care facilities in the United Kingdom where the National Health Service (the “NHS”) is the principal provider of healthcare services. In addition to the NHS, we face competition in the United Kingdom from independent sector providers and other publicly funded entities for patients. 




If our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed.




Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians.




Typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. As a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. Physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. They may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. If we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline.




It may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. Our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. The loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians.




If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected.




The technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. To compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. If our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business.




Our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations.




We depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel.




The nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. In addition, in some markets like California, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues.




We cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. If our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. Our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations.




Increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. Union organizing activities and certain potential changes in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization in the future, to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionized, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially.




15







The failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals.




The economies in the communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. Those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. The failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. The occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business.




The trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues.

 




  




We believe that value-based purchasing initiatives of both governmental and private payers tying financial incentives to quality and efficiency of care will increasingly affect the results of operations of our hospitals and other healthcare facilities and may negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet expected quality standards. The Legislation contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing in federal healthcare programs. Medicare now requires providers to report certain quality measures in order to receive full reimbursement increases for inpatient and outpatient procedures that were previously awarded automatically. In addition, hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards will receive increased reimbursement payments, and hospitals that have “excess readmissions” for specified conditions will receive reduced reimbursement. Furthermore, Medicare no longer pays hospitals additional amounts for the treatment of certain hospital-acquired conditions unless the conditions were present at admission. Beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, hospitals that rank in the worst 25% of all hospitals nationally for hospital acquired conditions in the previous year were subject to reduced Medicare reimbursements. The Legislation also prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for treating certain provider-preventable conditions. 




  




There is a trend among private payers toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services, as well. Many large commercial payers require hospitals to report quality data, and several of these payers will not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet quality standards established by both governmental and private payers. 




Controls designed to reduce inpatient services and increasing rates of “denials” may reduce our revenues.




Controls imposed by third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization review,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. In addition, we have been experiencing increasing rates of denied claims (“denials”) from managed care payers which have reduced our net revenues and increased our operating costs as we devote additional resources to enhanced documentation and collection efforts.  Although we cannot predict the effect these factors will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, and reimbursements withheld due to denials, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.




We depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business.




The expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. Effective January 1, 2021, Mr. Alan B. Miller, our Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has stepped down as Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Marc D. Miller, our former President, has been appointed as new Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Alan B. Miller continues to serve in his current role as Executive Chairman of our Board of Directors in addition to retaining certain other management responsibilities within our Company.




Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic




COVID-19 and other pandemics, epidemics, or public health threats may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.




We are subject to risks associated with public health threats and epidemics, including the health concerns relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. In January 2020, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) confirmed the spread of the disease to the United States. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic. The federal government has declared COVID-19 a national emergency, as many federal and state authorities have implemented aggressive 




16







measures to “flatten the curve” of confirmed individuals diagnosed with COVID-19 in an attempt to curtail the spread of the virus and to avoid overwhelming the health care system.




The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted and is likely to further adversely impact us, our employees, our patients, our vendors and supply chain partners, and financial institutions, which could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In an effort to slow the spread of the disease, since March, 2020, at various times, most state and local governments mandated general “shelter-in-place” orders or other similar restrictions that require or strongly encourage social distancing and, face coverings, and that have closed or limited non-essential business activities. Some of these restrictions remain in place. Additionally, evidence suggests that individuals to deciding to forego medical care delivered in traditional venues. 




These dynamics have manifested themselves in our hospitals in, among other ways, reduced emergency room visits, elective/scheduled procedures and acute and behavioral health patient days.  While such measures are expected to assist in responding to the recent outbreak, self-quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, and suspension of voluntary procedures and surgeries have had, and will likely continue to have, an adverse impact on the operations and financial position of health care provider systems due to increased costs (including labor costs which have been pressured during the COVID-19 pandemic due to a shortage of clinicians and increased wage rates due to increased demand for those services), actual reduction and potential reduction in overall patient volume, and shifts in payor mix. 




Despite these measures, there have been waves of escalated COVID-19 cases at various times, including the fourth quarter of 2020 and into the first quarter of 2021, in many states in the U.S., including many states in which we operate hospitals. Recently, COVID-19 vaccinations have begun to be administered and while we expect the administration of vaccines will assist in easing the number of COVID-19 patients, the pace at which this is likely to occur is very difficult to predict. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto impact our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on numerous factors and future developments, most of which are beyond our control or ability to predict. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. We are not able to fully quantify the impact that these factors will have on our future financial results, but expect developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic to materially affect our financial performance in 2021. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience materially adverse impacts on our financial condition and our results of operations as a result of its macroeconomic impact, including any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. 




There is a high degree of uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) and the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act (“PPPHCE Act”). 




The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”), a stimulus package signed into law on March 27, 2020, authorizes $100 billion in grant funding to hospitals and other healthcare providers to be distributed through the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund (the “PHSSEF”).  These funds are not required to be repaid provided the recipients attest to and comply with certain terms and conditions, including limitations on balance billing and not using PHSSEF funds to reimburse expenses or losses that other sources are obligated to reimburse. However, since the expenses and losses will be ultimately measured over the life of the COVID-19 pandemic, potential retrospective unfavorable adjustments in future periods, of funds recorded as revenues in prior periods, could occur. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) initially distributed $30 billion of this funding based on each provider’s share of total Medicare fee-for-service reimbursement in 2019.  Subsequently, HHS distributed $50 billion in CARES Act funding (including the $30 billion already distributed) proportional to providers’ share of 2018 net patient revenue. We have received payments from these initial distributions of the PHSSEF as disclosed herein.  HHS has indicated that distributions of the remaining $50 billion will be targeted primarily to hospitals in COVID-19 high impact areas, to rural providers, safety net hospitals and certain Medicaid providers and to reimburse providers for COVID-19-related treatment of uninsured patients. We have received payments from these targeted distributions of the PHSSEF, as disclosed herein. The CARES Act also makes other forms of financial assistance available to healthcare providers, including through Medicare and Medicaid payment adjustments and an expansion of the Medicare Accelerated and Advance Payment Program, which makes available accelerated payments of Medicare funds in order to increase cash flow to providers. On April 26, 2020, CMS announced it was reevaluating and temporarily suspending the Accelerated and Advance Payment Program in light of the availability of the PHSSEF and the significant funds available through other programs. We have received accelerated payments under this program as disclosed herein.




The Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act (the “PPPHCE Act”), a stimulus package signed into law on April 24, 2020, includes additional emergency appropriations for COVID-19 response, including $75 billion to be distributed to eligible providers through the PHSSEF. Recipients will not be required to repay the government for funds received, provided they comply with HHS-defined terms and conditions. A third phase of PHSSEF allocations was recently announced, under which $24.5 billion was made available for providers who previously received, rejected or accepted PHSSEF payments. Applicants that have not yet received PHSSEF payments of 2 percent of patient revenue will receive a payment that, when combined with prior payments (if any), equals 2 percent of patient care revenue. Providers that have already received payments of approximately 2 percent of annual revenue from patient care can submit more information and may be eligible for an additional payment. On December 27, 2020, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (“CAA”) was signed into law. The CAA appropriated an additional $3 billion to the PHSSEF, codified flexibility for providers to calculate lost revenues and permitted parent organizations to allocate PHSSEF targeted distributions to subsidiary organizations. The CAA also provides that not less than 85 percent of the unobligated PHSSEF amounts and any future funds recovered from health care providers should be used for additional distributions that consider financial losses and 




17







changes in operating expenses in the third or fourth quarters of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021 that are attributable to the coronavirus. The CAA provided additional funding for testing, contact tracing and vaccine administration. Providers receiving payments were required to sign terms and conditions regarding utilization of the payments. Any provider receiving funds in excess of $10,000 in the aggregate will be required to report data elements to HHS detailing utilization of the payments. Providers will report healthcare related expenses attributable to COVID-19 that have not been reimbursed by another source, which may include general and administrative or healthcare related operating expenses. Funds may also be applied to lost revenues, represented as a negative change in year-over-year net patient care operating income. All such fund payments must be expended by June 30, 2021. 




There is a high degree of uncertainty surrounding the implementation of the CARES Act and the PPPHCE Act, and the federal government may consider additional stimulus and relief efforts, but we are unable to predict whether additional stimulus measures will be enacted or their impact.  There can be no assurance as to the total amount of financial and other types of assistance we will receive under the CARES Act and the PPPHCE Act, and it is difficult to predict the impact of such legislation on our operations or how they will affect operations of our competitors.  Moreover, we are unable to assess the extent to which anticipated negative impacts on us arising from the COVID-19 pandemic will be offset by amounts or benefits received or to be received under the CARES Act and the PPPHCE Act.




Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment




Reductions or changes in Medicare and Medicaid funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.




The Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “

Budget Control Act

”) mandated significant reductions in federal spending for fiscal years 2012-2021, including a reduction of 2% on all Medicare payments during this period. Subsequent legislation enacted by Congress extended these reductions through 2030. There is a substantial risk that Congress could act to extend or increase these across-the-board reductions. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (“CAA”) eliminated the 2% reduction in Medicare payments from sequestration through March 31, 2021. Please see 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Sources of Revenue-Medicare

, for additional disclosure.




Beginning in 2024 and continuing through 2027, the Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (“DSH”) allotment to the states from federal funds will be reduced. Such reductions have been delayed several times, most recently under the CAA, which further delays the DSH through 2024. During the reduction period, state Medicaid DSH allotments from federal funds will be reduced by $8 billion annually. Reductions are imposed on states based on percentage of uninsured individuals, Medicaid utilization and uncompensated care.




We are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform.




On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Legislation”). Two primary goals of the Legislation are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses.




Although it was expected that as a result of the Legislation there would be a reduction in uninsured patients, which would reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the Legislation makes a number of other changes to Medicare and Medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. It has been projected that the Legislation will result in a net reduction in Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals totaling $155 billion over 10 years. The Legislation revises reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. The Legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. Conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates.  It remains unclear what portions of that legislation may remain, or what any replacement or alternative programs may be created by future legislation.  




A 2012 U.S. Supreme Court ruling limited the federal government’s ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the Legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain Medicaid coverage requirements. Pursuant to that decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the Medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing Medicaid funding. Therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of federal Medicaid funding. As a result, many states, including Texas, have not expanded their Medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. CMS has granted section 1115 demonstration waivers providing for work and community engagement requirements for certain Medicaid eligible individuals. CMS has also released guidance to states interested in receiving their Medicaid funding through a block grant mechanism. It is anticipated this will lead to reductions in coverage, and likely increases in uncompensated care, in states where these demonstration waivers are granted.  




The various provisions in the Legislation that directly or indirectly affect Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. The impact of the Legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation or legal challenges. Certain Legislation provisions, such as that creating the Medicare Shared Savings Program, create uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the 




18







future. Thus, we cannot predict the impact of the Legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the Legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.




The Legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. The Legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. While Congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the Anti-Kickback Statute to provide that a person is not required to “have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of” the Anti-Kickback Statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the Legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the Anti-Kickback Statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. The Legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil False Claims Act, although certain final regulations implementing this statutory requirement remain pending. The Legislation also expands the Recovery Audit Contractor program to Medicaid. These amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations.




We have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. These investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. The Legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a “grandfather” clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. The Legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities.  As discussed below, should the Legislation be repealed in its entirety, this aspect of the Legislation would also be repealed restoring physician ownership of hospitals and expansion right to its position and practice as it existed prior to the Legislation.     




The impact of the Legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. Because Legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the Legislation may be subject to further revision. Initiatives to repeal the Legislation, in whole or in part, to delay elements of implementation or funding, and to offer amendments or supplements to modify its provisions have been persistent. The ultimate outcomes of legislative attempts to repeal or amend the Legislation and legal challenges to the Legislation are unknown. Legislation has already been enacted that has eliminated the penalty for failing to maintain health coverage that was part of the original Legislation. In addition, Congress has considered legislation that would, if enacted, in material part: (i) eliminate the large employer mandate to obtain or provide health insurance coverage, respectively; (ii) permit insurers to impose a surcharge up to 30 percent on individuals who go uninsured for more than two months and then purchase coverage; (iii) provide tax credits towards the purchase of health insurance, with a phase-out of tax credits accordingly to income level; (iv) expand health savings accounts; (v) impose a per capita cap on federal funding of state Medicaid programs, or, if elected by a state, transition federal funding to block grants, and; (vi) permit states to seek a waiver of certain federal requirements that would allow such state to define essential health benefits differently from federal standards and that would allow certain commercial health plans to take health status, including pre-existing conditions, into account in setting premiums.  




In addition to legislative changes, the Legislation can be significantly impacted by executive branch actions.  President Biden is expected to undertake executive actions that will strengthen the Legislation and may reverse the policies of the prior administration. The Trump Administration had directed the issuance of final rules (i) enabling the formation of association health plans that would be exempt from certain Legislation requirements such as the provision of essential health benefits; (ii) expanding the availability of short-term, limited duration health insurance, (iii) eliminating cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers that would otherwise offset deductibles and other out-of-pocket expenses for health plan enrollees at or below 250 percent of the federal poverty level; (iv) relaxing requirements for state innovation waivers that could reduce enrollment in the individual and small group markets and lead to additional enrollment in short-term, limited duration insurance and association health plans; and (v) incentivizing the use of health reimbursement accounts by employers to permit employees to purchase health insurance in the individual market. The uncertainty resulting from these Executive Branch policies has led to reduced Exchange enrollment in 2018, 2019 and 2020 is expected to further worsen the individual and small group market risk pools in future years.  It is also anticipated that these policies may create additional cost and reimbursement pressures on hospitals.   




It remains unclear what portions of the Legislation may remain, or whether any replacement or alternative programs may be created by any future legislation. Any such future repeal or replacement may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, and may create reimbursement for services competing with the services offered by our hospitals. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the adoption of any future federal or state healthcare reform legislation will not have a negative financial impact on our hospitals, including their ability to compete with alternative healthcare services funded by such potential legislation, or for our hospitals to receive payment for services.




While attempts to repeal the entirety of the Legislation have not been successful to date, a key provision of the Legislation was repealed as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and on December 14, 2018, a Texas Federal District Court Judge declared the Legislation unconstitutional, reasoning that the individual mandate tax penalty was essential to and not severable from the remainder of the Legislation. The case was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and on December 18, 2019, a three-judge 




19







panel declared the Legislation’s individual mandate unconstitutional and remanded the case back to the Texas Federal District Court to determine which of the Legislation’s provisions should be stricken with the mandate or whether the entire law is unconstitutional without the individual mandate. On March 2, 2020, the Supreme Court agreed to hear two consolidated cases, filed by the State of California and the United States House of Representatives, asking the Supreme Court to review the ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit decision and to review whether, if the mandate is unconstitutional, it can be separated from the rest of the Legislation. Oral argument was heard on November 10, 2020, and a ruling is expected in 2021. The Legislation will remain law while the case proceeds through the appeals process; however, the case creates additional uncertainty as to whether any or all of the Legislation could be struck down, which creates operational risk for the health care industry. We cannot predict the effect of the elimination of the individual mandate tax penalty, the final result and effect of the 

California v. Texas

 case. While the results of the 2020 elections potentially reduce the risk of the Legislation being eliminated in whole or in part, the continued uncertainties regarding implementation of the Legislation create unpredictability for the strategic and business planning efforts of health care providers, which in itself constitutes a risk.  




Under the Legislation, hospitals are required to make public a list of their standard charges, and effective January 1, 2019, CMS has required that this disclosure be in machine-readable format and include charges for all hospital items and services and average charges for diagnosis-related groups. On November 27, 2019, CMS published a final rule on “Price Transparency Requirements for Hospitals to Make Standard Charges Public.” This rule took effect on January 1, 2021 and requires all hospitals to also make public their payor-specific negotiated rates, minimum negotiated rates, maximum negotiated rates and cash for all items and services, including individual items and services and service packages, that could be provided by a hospital to a patient. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in daily monetary penalties.




As part of the CAA, Congress passed legislation aimed at preventing or limiting patient balance billing in certain circumstances. The CAA addresses surprise medical bills stemming from emergency services, out-of-network ancillary providers at in-network facilities, and air ambulance carriers. The legislation prohibits surprise billing when out-of-network emergency services or out-of-network services at an in-network facility are provided, unless informed consent is received. In these circumstances providers are prohibited from billing the patient for any amounts that exceed in-network cost-sharing requirements. The legislation requires implementing regulations within a year of enactment.




We are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay.




In accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, or EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient’s medical condition, within the facility’s capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital’s written procedures. Our obligations under EMTALA may increase substantially going forward; CMS has sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of EMTALA to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively, but has yet to issue further guidance in response to that request. If the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under EMTALA is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed.




If we fail to continue to meet the promoting interoperability criteria related to electronic health record systems (“EHR”), our operations could be harmed.




Pursuant to Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) regulations, hospitals that did not qualify as a meaningful user of EHR by 2015 were subject to a reduced market basket update to the inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”) standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. In the 2019 IPPS final rule, CMS re-named the meaningful use program to “promoting interoperability”.  We believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable promoting interoperability criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market basked update to the IPPS standardized amount. However, under the HITECH Act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. Failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations.




Our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations.




We depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel.




The nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. In addition, in some markets like California, there are 




20







requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues.




We cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. If our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. Our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations.




Increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. Union organizing activities and certain potential changes in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization 




If we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability.




The healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services.




Among these laws are the federal False Claims Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, (“HIPAA”), the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark Law.” These laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the Stark Law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. We have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. We also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. The Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, or OIG, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. A number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. Failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. We cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. CMS published a Medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the Stark law. Because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the Stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the Stark Law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties.




Federal regulations issued under HIPAA contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s health and related financial information. Such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. Additionally, recent changes to HIPAA regulations may result in greater compliance requirements, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf.




These laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see 

Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Commitments and Contingencies

, as included this Form 10-K), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. See 

Item 1 Business—Self-Referral and Anti-Kickback Legislation

.




If we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the Stark Law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. The imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.




21







We also operate health care facilities in the United Kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain U.S. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act regulates U.S. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. In addition, the United Kingdom Bribery Act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the United Kingdom.




Our operations in the United Kingdom are also subject to a high level of regulation relating to registration and licensing requirements employee regulation, clinical standards, environmental rules as well as other areas. We are also subject to a highly regulated business environment, and failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, applicable to us could lead to substantial penalties, and other adverse effects on our business.




We are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations.




We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations.  




We are subject to pending legal actions, purported stockholder class actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions.




We, our subsidiaries, PSI, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see 

Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Commitments and Contingencies

, as included this Form 10-K). We may become subject to additional medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. 




Defending ourselves against the allegations in the lawsuits and governmental investigations, or similar matters and any related publicity, could potentially entail significant costs and could require significant attention from our management and our reputation could suffer significantly. We are unable to predict the outcome of these matters or to reasonably estimate the amount or range of any such loss; however, these lawsuits and the related publicity and news articles that have been published concerning these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows which in turn could cause a decline in our stock price. 

In an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. Amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. All professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. We believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. While we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. If such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations.




We are and may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, circumstances and occurrences. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our legal proceedings or other loss contingencies, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 




In particular, government investigations, as well as qui tam and stockholder lawsuits, may lead to material fines, penalties, damages payments or other sanctions, including exclusion from government healthcare 

programs. The federal False Claims Act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits on behalf of the government against companies alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. These private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of whistleblower lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. Settlements of lawsuits involving Medicare and Medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity agreements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.




The failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals.




The economies in the communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. Those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. The failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. The occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business.




22







If any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid.




The construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. Additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards.




All of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the Medicare program. The effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. However, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected.




State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand.




Many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted Certificates of Need, or (“CON”), laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. Our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility’s license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business.




In addition, significant CON reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. In the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations.




Risks Related to Information Technology




A cyber security incident could cause a violation of HIPAA, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts.




In September, 2020, we experienced an information technology security incident which led us to suspend user access to our information technology applications related to operations located in the United States. While our information technology applications were offline, patient care was delivered safely and effectively at our facilities across the country utilizing established back-up processes, including offline documentation methods. We have investigated the nature and potential impact of the security incident and engaged third-party information technology and forensic vendors to assist. No evidence of unauthorized access, copying or misuse of any patient or employee data has been identified to date. Promptly after the incident, our information technology applications were restored at our acute care and behavioral health hospitals, as well as at the corporate level, thereby re-establishing connections to all major systems and applications, including electronic medical records, laboratory and pharmacy systems and our hospitals resumed normal operations. 




We rely extensively on our information technology (“IT”) systems to manage clinical and financial data, communicate with our patients, payers, vendors and other third parties and summarize and analyze operating results. In addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize electronic health records and to become meaningful users of health information technology pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Our IT systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, facility damage, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches including credit card or personally identifiable information breaches, vandalism, theft, natural disasters, catastrophic events, human error and potential cyber threats, including malicious codes, worms, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, ransomware and other sophisticated cyber-attacks, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. As cyber criminals continue to become more sophisticated through evolution of their tactics, techniques and procedures, we have taken, and will continue to take, additional preventive measures to strengthen the cyber defenses of our networks and data.  However, if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data such as protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws and proprietary business information and interruptions or disruptions and delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could materially and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations and could result in significant penalties or fines, litigation, loss of customers, significant damage to our reputation and business, and other losses. In addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information.




Risks Related to the Market Conditions and Liquidity




Our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control.




Our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians’ clinical decisions and availability, payer programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, climate change, current local 




23







economic and demographic changes. In addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer.

  

Further, the Medicare program’s three-year

 

phase out and eventual elimination of the Inpatient Only List, a list of surgeries and procedures that are only

 

covered by Medicare when provided in an inpatient setting, may reduce inpatient volumes

.




A worsening of economic and employment conditions in the United States could materially affect our business and future results of operations.




Our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. Worsening of economic conditions may result in a higher unemployment rate which may increase the number of individuals without health insurance. As a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or an increase in services provided to uninsured patients. These factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results.




In addition, as of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $3.9 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Should the revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the United States that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.




Legal uncertainty or a worsening of the economic conditions in the United Kingdom could materially affect our business and future results of operations.




On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom affirmatively voted in a non-binding referendum in favor of the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (“Brexit”) and it was approved by vote of the British legislature. On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, formally starting negotiations regarding its exit from the European Union. On January 31, 2020, the United Kingdom formally exited the European Union. On December 24, 2020, the United Kingdom and the European Union reached a post-Brexit trade and cooperation agreement that created new business and security requirements and preserved the United Kingdom’s tariff- and quota-free access to the European Union member states.   




Changes to the trading relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union may result in increased cost of goods imported into the United Kingdom. Additional currency volatility could result in a weaker British pound, which may decrease the profitability of our operations in the United Kingdom. A weaker British pound versus the U.S. Dollar also causes local currency results of our United Kingdom operations to be translated into fewer U.S. Dollars during a reporting period. While we may elect to enter into hedging arrangements to protect our business against certain currency fluctuations, these hedging arrangements do not provide comprehensive protection, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by foreign exchange fluctuations.




Brexit could lead to legal and regulatory uncertainty as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. Brexit could also lead to increased legal and regulatory complexity as national laws and regulations in the United Kingdom start to diverge from European Union laws and regulations. For instance, rules for data transfers outside of the United Kingdom and European Economic Area have changed significantly with Brexit and a recent Court of European Justice decision, and are subject to further revision and updated regulatory guidance, making necessary compliance measures challenging to ascertain and implement with respect to our United Kingdom operations. The exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union could also create future economic uncertainty, both in the United Kingdom and globally, and could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business. Any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.




We continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. Such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects.




The cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. As we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. Although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained.




The deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed.




We require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. We believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. We cannot predict, however, whether financing for our 




24







growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business.




To fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. If any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. 




The LIBOR calculation method may change and LIBOR is expected to be phased out after 2021.




Our Credit Agreement permits interest on borrowings to be calculated based on LIBOR, and in the past, we have had interest rate swaps that were based on LIBOR. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”) announced that it will no longer require banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The phase-out of LIBOR may result in the establishment of one or more alternative benchmark rates, but at this time it is uncertain what alternative benchmark rates would replace LIBOR. In the meantime, actions by the FCA, other regulators, or law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the method by which LIBOR is calculated. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of any such changes or any other reforms to LIBOR that may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.




Risks Related to Our Common Stock




The number of outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock is subject to potential increases or decreases.




At December 31, 2020, 22.1 million shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of Class A, C and D Common Stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase Class B Common Stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. Class A, C and D Common Stock are convertible on a share for share basis into Class B Common Stock. To the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of Class B Common Stock, the number of shares of Class B Common Stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the current holders of Class B Common Stock would own a smaller percentage of that class.




In addition, from time-to-time our Board of Directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our Class B Common Stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. Such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock. Conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock. Based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share.




The right to elect the majority of our Board of Directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of Class A and C Common Stock, the majority of which is owned by Alan B. Miller, Executive Chairman of our Board of Directors.




Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of Class A Common Stock vote as a class with the holders of Class C Common Stock, and holders of Class B Common Stock vote as a class with holders of Class D Common Stock, with holders of all classes of our Common Stock entitled to one vote per share.




As of March 24, 2020, the shares of Class A and Class C Common Stock constituted 8.5% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our Common Stock, had the right to elect five members of the Board of Directors and constituted 87.9% of our general voting power as of that date. As of March 24, 2020, the shares of Class B and Class D Common Stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 91.5% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, had the right to elect two members of the Board of Directors and constituted 12.1% of our general voting power as of that date.




As to matters other than the election of directors, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that holders of Class A, Class B, Class C and Class D Common Stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law.




Each share of Class A Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of Class B Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of Class C Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of Class C Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class A Common Stock equal to ten times the number of shares of Class C Common Stock that holder holds); and each share of Class D Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of Class D Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class B Common Stock equal to ten times the number of shares of Class D Common Stock that holder holds).




In the event a holder of Class C or Class D Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of Class C or Class D Common Stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of Class C Common Stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of Class D Common Stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock, respectively, held by that 




25







holder. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock as Class C or Class D Common Stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records.




Since a substantial majority of the Class A shares and Class C shares are controlled by Mr. Alan B. Miller and members of his family, one of whom is Marc D. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer, President and a director, and they can elect a majority of our company’s directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company.




In addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected.
















ITEM 1B.







Unresolved Staff Comments




None.
















ITEM 2.







Properties




Executive and Administrative Offices and Commercial Health Insurer




We own various office buildings in King of Prussia and Wayne, Pennsylvania, Brentwood, Tennessee, Denton, Texas and Reno, Nevada. 




Facilities 




The following tables set forth the name, location, type of facility and, for acute care hospitals and behavioral health care facilities, the number of licensed beds: 




Acute Care Hospitals 




 


































Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Aiken Regional Medical Centers







Aiken, South Carolina







211







Owned













Aurora Pavilion







Aiken, South Carolina







62







Owned













Centennial Hills Hospital Medical Center







Las Vegas, Nevada







336







Owned













Corona Regional Medical Center







Corona, California







238







Owned













Desert Springs Hospital







Las Vegas, Nevada







293







Owned













Desert View Hospital







Pahrump, Nevada







25







Owned













Doctors’ Hospital of Laredo (7)







Laredo, Texas







183







Owned













         Doctor’s Hospital Emergency Room Laredo







Laredo, Texas







—







Leased













         Doctor’s Hospital Emergency Room Saunders







Laredo, Texas







—







Owned













Fort Duncan Regional Medical Center







Eagle Pass, Texas







101







Owned













The George Washington University Hospital (1)







Washington, D.C.







395







Leased













Henderson Hospital 







Henderson, Nevada







170







Owned













ER at Green Valley Ranch







Henderson, Nevada







—







Owned













Lakewood Ranch Medical Center







Bradenton, Florida







120







Owned













ER at Fruitville







Sarasota, Florida







—







Owned













Manatee Memorial Hospital







Bradenton, Florida







295







Owned













Northern Nevada Medical Center







Sparks, Nevada







124







Owned













ER at McCarren NW







Reno, Nevada







—







Owned













Northwest Texas Healthcare System







Amarillo, Texas







405







Owned













The Pavilion at Northwest Texas Healthcare System







Amarillo, Texas







90







Owned













Northwest Emergency at Town Square







Amarillo, Texas







—







Owned













Northwest Emergency on Georgia







Amarillo, Texas







—







Owned













Palmdale Regional Medical Center







Palmdale, California







184







Owned













South Texas Health System (3)







 







 







 







26





































Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Edinburg Regional Medical Center/Children’s Hospital

 (3)







Edinburg, Texas







235







Owned













McAllen Medical Center (2) (3)







McAllen, Texas







441







Leased













McAllen Heart Hospital (3)







McAllen, Texas







60







Owned













South Texas Behavioral Health Center (3)







McAllen, Texas







134







Owned













South Texas Health System ER Alamo (3)







Alamo, Texas







—







Owned













South Texas Health System ER McColl (3)







Edinburg, Texas







—







Owned













South Texas Health System ER Mission (2) (3)







Mission, Texas







—







Leased













South Texas Health System ER Monte Cristo (3)







Edinburg, Texas







—







Owned













South Texas Health System ER Ware Road (3)







McAllen, Texas







—







Owned













South Texas Health System ER Weslaco (2) (3)







Weslaco, Texas







—







Leased













Southwest Healthcare System







 







 







 













Inland Valley Campus (2)







Wildomar, California







120







Leased













Rancho Springs Campus







Murrieta, California







120







Owned













Spring Valley Hospital Medical Center







Las Vegas, Nevada







364







Owned













ER at Blue Diamond







Las Vegas, Nevada







—







Owned













St. Mary’s Regional Medical Center







Enid, Oklahoma







229







Owned













Summerlin Hospital Medical Center







Las Vegas, Nevada







485







Owned













Temecula Valley Hospital







Temecula, California







140







Owned













Texoma Medical Center







Denison, Texas







354







Owned













TMC Behavioral Health Center







Denison, Texas







60







Owned













ER at Anna







Anna, Texas







—







Owned













ER at Sherman







Sherman, Texas







—







Owned













Valley Hospital Medical Center







Las Vegas, Nevada







306







Owned













Wellington Regional Medical Center (2)







West Palm Beach, Florida







235







Leased













ER at Westlake







West Palm Beach, Florida 







       —







    Leased










 




Inpatient Behavioral Health Care Facilities 




 


































United States:







 







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Alabama Clinical Schools







Birmingham, Alabama







80







Owned













Alhambra Hospital







Rosemead, California







115







Owned













Alliance Health Center







Meridian, Mississippi







214







Owned













The Arbour Hospital







Boston, Massachusetts







136







Owned













Arbour-Fuller Hospital







South Attleboro, Massachusetts







102







Owned













Arbour-HRI Hospital







Brookline, Massachusetts







62







Owned













Arrowhead Behavioral Health







Maumee, Ohio







48







Owned













Austin Lakes Hospital







Austin, Texas







58







Leased













Austin Oaks Hospitals







Austin, Texas







80







Owned













Behavioral Hospital of Bellaire







Houston, Texas







124







Leased













Belmont Pines Hospital







Youngstown, Ohio







121







Owned













Benchmark Behavioral Health System







Woods Cross, Utah







94







Owned













Black Bear Treatment Center







Sautee, Georgia







115







Owned













Bloomington Meadows Hospital







Bloomington, Indiana







78







Owned













Boulder Creek Academy







Bonners Ferry, Idaho







105







Owned













Brentwood Behavioral Health of Mississippi







Flowood, Mississippi







121







Owned













Brentwood Hospital







Shreveport, Louisiana







260







Owned













The Bridgeway







North Little Rock, Arkansas







127







Owned













Brook Hospital—Dupont







Louisville, Kentucky







88







Owned













Brook Hospital—KMI







Louisville, Kentucky







110







Owned













Brooke Glen Behavioral Hospital







Fort Washington, Pennsylvania







146







Owned







27





































United States:







 







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Brynn Marr Hospital







Jacksonville, North Carolina







102







Owned













Calvary Addiction Recovery Center







Phoenix, Arizona







68







Owned













Canyon Behavioral Health







Temple, Texas







102







Owned













Canyon Ridge Hospital







Chino, California







157







Owned













The Carolina Center for Behavioral Health







Greer, South Carolina







156







Owned













Cedar Creek







St. Johns, Michigan 







54







Owned













Cedar Grove Residential Treatment Center







Murfreesboro, Tennessee







40







Owned













Cedar Hills Hospital (8)







Beaverton, Oregon







98







Owned













Cedar Ridge







Oklahoma City, Oklahoma







60







Owned













Cedar Ridge Residential Treatment Center







Oklahoma City, Oklahoma







56







Owned













Cedar Ridge Bethany







Bethany, Oklahoma







56







Owned













Cedar Springs Behavioral Health







Colorado Springs, Colorado







110







Owned













Centennial Peaks







Louisville, Colorado







104







Owned













Center for Change







Orem, Utah







58







Owned













Central Florida Behavioral Hospital







Orlando, Florida







174







Owned













Chris Kyle Patriots Hospital







Anchorage, Alaska







36







Owned













Clarion Psychiatric Center







Clarion, Pennsylvania







112







Owned













Clive Behavioral Health (12)







Clive, Iowa







100







Leased













Coastal Behavioral Health







Savannah, Georgia







50







Owned













Coastal Harbor Treatment Center







Savannah, Georgia







141







Owned













Columbus Behavioral Center for Children and Adolescents







Columbus, Indiana







57







Owned













Compass Intervention Center







Memphis, Tennessee







108







Owned













Copper Hills Youth Center







West Jordan, Utah







197







Owned













Coral Shores







Stuart, Florida







80







Owned













Cumberland Hall







Hopkinsville, Kentucky







97







Owned













Cumberland Hospital







New Kent, Virginia







110







Owned













Cypress Creek Hospital







Houston, Texas







128







Owned













Del Amo Hospital







Torrance, California







166







Owned













Diamond Grove Center







Louisville, Mississippi







55







Owned













Dover Behavioral Health







Dover, Delaware







104







Owned













El Paso Behavioral Health System







El Paso, Texas







166







Owned













Emerald Coast Behavioral Hospital







Panama City, Florida







86







Owned













Fairmount Behavioral Health System







Philadelphia, Pennsylvania







239







Owned













Fairfax







 







 







 













Fairfax Hospital







Kirkland, Washington







157







Owned













Fairfax Hospital—Everett







Everett, Washington







30







Leased













Fairfax Hospital—Monroe







Monroe, Washington







34







Leased













Forest View Hospital







Grand Rapids, Michigan







108







Owned













Fort Lauderdale Hospital







Fort Lauderdale, Florida







182







Owned













Foundations Behavioral Health







Doylestown, Pennsylvania







108







Leased













Foundations for Living







Mansfield, Ohio







84







Owned













Fox Run Hospital







St. Clairsville, Ohio







100







Owned













Fremont Hospital







Fremont, California







148







Owned













Friends Hospital







Philadelphia, Pennsylvania







219







Owned













Garfield Park Hospital







Chicago, Illinois







88







Owned













Garland Behavioral Health







Garland, Texas







72







Leased













Glen Oaks Hospital







Greenville, Texas







54







Owned













Gulf Coast Youth Services







Fort Walton Beach, Florida







28







Owned













Gulfport Behavioral Health System







Gulfport, Mississippi







109







Owned













Hampton Behavioral Health Center







Westhampton, New Jersey







120







Owned













Harbour Point (Pines)







Portsmouth, Virginia







186







Owned













Hartgrove Hospital







Chicago, Illinois







160







Owned







28





































United States:







 







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Havenwyck

 Hospital







Auburn Hills, Michigan







243







Owned













Heartland Behavioral Health Services







Nevada, Missouri







151







Owned













Hermitage Hall







Nashville, Tennessee







111







Owned













Heritage Oaks Hospital







Sacramento, California







125







Owned













Hickory Trail Hospital







DeSoto, Texas







86







Owned













Highlands Behavioral Health System







Highlands Ranch, Colorado







86







Owned













Hill Crest Behavioral Health Services







Birmingham, Alabama







219







Owned













Holly Hill Hospital







Raleigh, North Carolina







296







Owned













The Horsham Clinic







Ambler, Pennsylvania







206







Owned













Hughes Center







Danville, Virginia







64







Owned













Inland Northwest Behavioral Health (10)







Spokane, Washington







100







Owned













Intermountain Hospital







Boise, Idaho







155







Owned













Kempsville Center of Behavioral Health







Norfolk, Virginia







82







Owned













KeyStone Center







Wallingford, Pennsylvania







153







Owned













Kingwood Pines Hospital







Kingwood, Texas







116







Owned













La Amistad Behavioral Health Services







Maitland, Florida







85







Owned













Lakeside Behavioral Health System







Memphis, Tennessee







373







Owned













Lancaster Behavioral Health Hospital (9)







Lancaster, Pennsylvania







126







Owned













Laurel Heights Hospital







Atlanta, Georgia







124







Owned













Laurel Oaks Behavioral Health Center







Dothan, Alabama







124







Owned













Laurel Ridge Treatment Center







San Antonio, Texas







330







Owned













Liberty Point Behavioral Health







Stauton, Virginia







56







Owned













Lighthouse Care Center of Augusta







Augusta, Georgia







82







Owned













Lighthouse Care Center of Conway







Conway, South Carolina







105







Owned













Lincoln Prairie Behavioral Health Center







Springfield, Illinois







97







Owned













Lincoln Trail Behavioral Health System







Radcliff, Kentucky







140







Owned













Mayhill Hospital







Denton, Texas







59







Leased













McDowell Center for Children







Dyersburg, Tennessee







32







Owned













The Meadows Psychiatric Center







Centre Hall, Pennsylvania







119







Owned













Meridell Achievement Center







Austin, Texas







134







Owned













Mesilla Valley Hospital







Las Cruces, New Mexico







119







Owned













Michael’s House







Palm Springs, California







90







Owned













Michiana Behavioral Health Center







Plymouth, Indiana







83







Owned













Midwest Center for Youth and Families







Kouts, Indiana







74







Owned













Millwood Hospital







Arlington, Texas







134







Leased













Mountain Youth Academy







Mountain City, Tennessee







90







Owned













Natchez Trace Youth Academy







Waverly, Tennessee







115







Owned













Newport News Behavioral Health Center







Newport News, Virginia







132







Owned













North Spring Behavioral Healthcare







Leesburg, Virginia







127







Leased













North Star Hospital







Anchorage, Alaska







74







Owned













North Star Bragaw







Anchorage, Alaska







30







Owned













North Star DeBarr Residential Treatment Center







Anchorage, Alaska







30







Owned













North Star Palmer Residential Treatment Center







Palmer, Alaska







30







Owned













Oak Plains Academy







Ashland City, Tennessee







98







Owned













Okaloosa Youth Academy







Crestview, Florida







75







Leased













Old Vineyard Behavioral Health







Winston-Salem, North Carolina







164







Owned













Palmetto Lowcountry Behavioral Health







North Charleston, South Carolina







108







Owned













Palmetto Summerville







Summerville, South Carolina







64







Leased













Palm Point Behavioral







Titusville, FL







74







Owned













Palm Shores Behavioral Health Center







Bradenton, Florida







64







Owned













Palo Verde Behavioral Health







Tucson, Arizona







84







Leased













Parkwood Behavioral Health System







Olive Branch, Mississippi







148







Owned







29





































United States:







 







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













The Pavilion







Champaign, Illinois







106







Owned













Peachford Behavioral Health System of Atlanta







Atlanta, Georgia







246







Owned













Pembroke Hospital







Pembroke, Massachusetts







120







Owned













Pinnacle Pointe Hospital







Little Rock, Arkansas







127







Owned













Poplar Springs Hospital







Petersburg, Virginia







208







Owned













Prairie St John’s







Fargo, North Dakota







158







Owned













Pride Institute







Eden Prairie, Minnesota







42







Owned













Provo Canyon School







Provo, Utah







274







Owned













Provo Canyon Behavioral Hospital







Orem, Utah







80







Owned













Psychiatric Institute of Washington







Washington, D.C.







130







Owned













Quail Run Behavioral Health







Phoenix, Arizona







102







Owned













The Recovery Center







Wichita Falls, Texas







34







Leased













The Ridge Behavioral Health System







Lexington, Kentucky







110







Owned













Rivendell Behavioral Health Services of Arkansas







Benton, Arkansas







80







Owned













Rivendell Behavioral Health Services of Kentucky







Bowling Green, Kentucky







125







Owned













River Crest Hospital







San Angelo, Texas







80







Owned













Riveredge Hospital







Forest Park, Illinois







210







Owned













River Oaks Hospital







New Orleans, Louisiana







126







Owned













River Park Hospital







Huntington, West Virginia







187







Owned













River Point Behavioral Health







Jacksonville, Florida







84







Owned













Rockford Center







Newark, Delaware







138







Owned













Rolling Hills Hospital







Franklin, Tennessee







130







Owned













Roxbury







Shippensburg, Pennsylvania







112







Owned













Salt Lake Behavioral Health







Salt Lake City, Utah







118







Leased













San Marcos Treatment Center







San Marcos, Texas







265







Owned













Sandy Pines Hospital







Tequesta, Florida







149







Owned













Schick Shadel Hospital







Burien, Washington







60







Owned













Sierra Vista Hospital







Sacramento, California







171







Owned













Southern Crescent Behavioral Health







 







 







 













Anchor Hospital







Atlanta, Georgia







122







Owned













St. Simons by the Sea







St. Simons, Georgia







101







Owned













Skywood Recovery







Augusta, Michigan







100







Owned













Spring Mountain Sahara







Las Vegas, Nevada







30







Owned













Spring Mountain Treatment Center







Las Vegas, Nevada







110







Owned













Springwoods







Fayetteville, Arkansas







80







Owned













Stonington Institute







North Stonington, Connecticut







64







Owned













Streamwood Behavioral Health







Streamwood, Illinois







178







Owned













Summit Oaks Hospital







Summit, New Jersey







126







Owned













SummitRidge







Lawrenceville, Georgia







96







Owned













Suncoast Behavioral Health Center







Bradenton, Florida







60







Owned













Texas NeuroRehab Center







Austin, Texas







123







Owned













Three Rivers Behavioral Health







West Columbia, South Carolina







122







Owned













Three Rivers Residential Treatment-Midlands Campus







West Columbia, South Carolina







64







Owned













Turning Point Hospital







Moultrie, Georgia







79







Owned













University Behavioral Center







Orlando, Florida







112







Owned













University Behavioral Health of Denton







Denton, Texas







104







Owned













Valle Vista Hospital







Greenwood, Indiana







132







Owned













Valley Hospital







Phoenix, Arizona







122







Owned













The Vines Hospital







Ocala, Florida







98







Owned













Virginia Beach Psychiatric Center







Virginia Beach, Virginia







100







Owned













Wekiva Springs







Jacksonville, Florida







120







Owned













Wellstone Regional Hospital







Jeffersonville, Indiana







100







Owned







30





































United States:







 







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













West Hills Hospital







Reno, Nevada







95







Owned













West Oaks Hospital







Houston, Texas







176







Owned













Willow Springs Center







Reno, Nevada







116







Owned













Windmoor Healthcare







Clearwater, Florida







144







Owned













Windsor—Laurelwood Center







Willoughby, Ohio







160







Leased













Wyoming Behavioral Institute







Casper, Wyoming







129







Owned













 







 







 







 










 




 


































United Kingdom:







 







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Acer Clinic 







Chestherfield, UK







14







Owned













Acer Clinic 2







Chestherfield, UK







14







Owned













Albert Ward 







Darlington, UK







25







Owned













Amberwood Lodge 







Dorset, UK







9







Owned













Ashbrook







Birmingham, UK







16







Owned













Ashfield House 







Huddersfield, UK







6







Owned













Aspen House 







South Yorkshire, UK







20







Owned













Aspen Lodge 







Rotherham, UK







16







Owned













Beacon Lower 







Bradford, UK







8







Owned













Beacon Upper 







Bradford, UK







8







Owned













Beckly House 







Halifax, UK







12







Owned













Bostall House  







London, UK







6







Owned













Bury Hospital







Bury, UK







167







Owned













Broughton House







Lincolnshire, UK







34







Owned













Broughton Lodge







Cheshire, UK







20







Owned













Cambian Alders 







Gloucester, UK







20







Owned













Cambian Ansel Clinic







Nottingham, UK







25







Owned













Cambian Appletree 







Durham, UK







26







Owned













Cambian Beeches







Nottinghamshire, UK







12







Owned













Cambian Birches







Notts, UK







6







Owned













Cambian Cedars







Birmingham, UK







24







Owned













Cambian Churchill







London, UK







57







Owned













Cambian Conifers







Derby, UK







7







Owned













Cambian Elms







Birmingham, UK







10







Owned













Cambian Grange







Nottinghamshire, UK







8







Owned













Cambian Heathers







West Bromwich, UK







20







Owned













Cambian Lodge







Nottinghamshire, UK







8







Owned













Cambian Manor







Central Drive, UK







20







Owned













Cambian Nightingale







Dorset, UK







10







Owned













Cambian Oaks







Barnsley, UK







36







Owned













Cambian Pines







Woodhouse, UK







7







Owned













Cambian Views







Matlock, UK







10







Owned













Cambian Woodside







Bradford, UK







9







Owned













CAS Brunel







Henbury, UK







32







Owned













Cedar Vale







Nottinghamshire, UK







14







Owned













Chaseways







Sawbridgeworth, UK







6







Owned













Cherry Tree House







Nottinghamshire, UK







6







Owned













Chesterholme







Northumberland, UK







16







Owned













Coventry







Coventry, UK







56







Owned













Cygnet Hospital—Beckton







Beckton, UK







62







Owned







31





































United Kingdom:







 







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Cygnet Hospital—

Bierley







Bierley, UK







63







Owned













Cygnet Wing—Blackheath







Blackheath, UK







32







Leased













Cygnet Lodge—Brighouse







Brighouse, UK







25







Owned













Cygnet Hospital—Derby







Derby, UK







50







Owned













Cygnet Hospital—Ealing







Ealing, UK







26







Owned













Cygnet Hospital—Godden Green







Godden Green, UK







39







Owned













Cygnet Hospital—Harrogate







Harrogate, UK







36







Owned













Cygnet Hospital—Harrow







Harrow, UK







61







Owned













Cygnet Hospital—Kewstoke







Kewstoke, UK







72







Owned













Cygnet Lodge—Lewisham







Lewisham, UK







17







Owned













Cygnet Lodge – Salford







Manchester, UK







24







Owned













Cygnet Hospital—Stevenage







Stevenage, UK







88







Owned













Cygnet Hospital—Taunton







Taunton, UK







55







Owned













Cygnet Lodge – Kenton







Westlands, UK







15







Owned













Cygnet Hospital—Wyke







Wyke, UK







49







Owned













Cygnet Lodge – Woking







Knaphill, UK







31







Owned













Delfryn House







Flintshire, UK







28







Owned













Delfryn Lodge







Flintshire, UK







24







Owned













Dene Brook







Dalton Parva, UK







13







Owned













Devon Lodge







Southampton, UK







12







Owned













Dove Valley







Wombwell, UK







10







Owned













Ducks Halt







Essex, UK







5







Owned













Eleni House







Essex, UK







8







Owned













Ellen Mhor







Dundee, UK







12







Owned













Elston House







Nottinghamshire, UK







8







Owned













Fairways







Suffolk, UK







8







Owned













Farm Lodge







Rainham, UK







5







Owned













The Fields







Sheffield, UK







54







Owned













Highwoods







Colchester, UK







20







Owned













The Fountains







Blackburn, UK







32







Owned













The Gables







Essex, UK







7







Owned













Gledcliffe Road







Huddersfield, UK







6







Owned













Gledholt







Huddersfield, UK







9







Owned













Gledholt Mews







Huddersfield, UK







21







Owned













Glyn House







Stoke on Trent, UK







5







Owned













Hawkstone







Utley, UK







10







Owned













Hollyhurst







County Durham, UK







19







Owned













Hope House







County Durham, UK







11







Owned













Kirkside House







Leeds, UK







7







Owned













Kirkside Lodge







Leeds, UK







8







Owned













Langdale House







Huddersfield, UK







8







Owned













Langdale Coach House







Huddersfield, UK







3







Owned













Larch Court







Essex, UK







4







Owned













Limes Houses







Nottinghamshire, UK







6







Owned













Lindsay House 







Dundee, UK







2







Owned













Longfield House







Bradford, UK







9







Owned













Lowry House







Hyde, UK







12







Owned













Maidstone







Maidstone, UK







65







Owned













Marion House







Derby, UK







5







Owned













Meadows Mews







Tipton, UK







10







Owned













Morgan House







Stoke on Trent, UK







5







Owned













Newbus Grange







County Durham, UK







17







Owned







32





































United Kingdom:







 







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Newham

 House







Middlesbrough, UK







20







Owned













Nield House







Crewe, UK







30







Owned













Norcott House







Liversedge, UK







11







Owned













Norcott Lodge







Liversedge, UK







9







Owned













North West Supported Living







Macclesfield, UK







5







Owned













Oak Court







Essex, UK







12







Owned













Oakhurst Lodge







Hampshire, UK







8







Owned













Oaklands







Northumberland, UK







19







Owned













Old Leigh House







Essex, UK







7







Leased













The Orchards







Essex, UK







5







Owned













The Outwood







Leeds, UK







10







Owned













Oxley Lodge







Huddersfield, UK







4







Owned













Oxley Woodhouse







Huddersfield, UK







13







Owned













Pindar House







Barnsley, UK







22







Owned













Portland Road 45







Edgbaston, UK







4







Leased













Raglan House







West Midlands, UK







25







Owned













Ramsey







Colchester, UK







21







Owned













Ranaich House







Stirling, UK







14







Owned













Redlands







County Durham, UK







5







Owned













Rhyd Alyn







Flintshire, UK







6







Owned













Rufford Lodge







Mansfield, UK







2







Owned 













Sedgley House







Wolverhampton, UK







20







Owned













Sedgley Lodge







Wolverhampton, UK







14







Owned













Shear Meadow







Hemel Hempstead, UK







4







Owned













Sheffield Hospital







Sheffield, UK







57







Owned













Sherwood House







Mansfield, UK







30







Owned













Sherwood Lodge







Mansfield, UK







17







Owned













Sherwood Lodge Step Down







Mansfield, UK







9







Owned













The Squirrels







Hampshire, UK







9







Owned













St. Augustine's







Stoke on Trent, UK







32







Owned













St. Teilo House







Gwent, UK







23







Owned













St. Williams







Darlington, UK







12







Owned













Storthfields







Derby, UK







22







Owned













The Sycamores







Derbyshire, UK







6







Owned













The Sycamores No 4 & 5







Derbyshire, UK







4







Owned













Tabley Nursing Home—Tabley







Tabley, UK







51







Leased













Thistle Care Home







Dundee, UK







10







Owned













Thornfield Grange







County Durham, UK







9







Owned













Thornfield House







Bradford, UK







7







Owned













Thors Park







Essex, UK







14







Owned













Toller Road







Leicestershire, UK







8







Owned













Trinity House







Galloway, UK







13







Owned













Tupwood Gate Nursing Home







Caterham, UK







33







Owned













River View







County Durham, UK







6







Owned













Vincent Court







Lancashire, UK







5







Owned













Walkern Lodge







Stevenage, UK







4







Owned













Wallace Hospital







Dundee, UK







10







Owned













Wast Hills







West Midlands, UK







26







Owned













Whorlton Hall 







County Durham, UK







17







Owned













Willow House







West Midlands, UK







8







Owned













Woking Hospital







Woking, UK







60







Owned













Woodcross Street







Wolverhampton, UK







8







Owned







33





































United Kingdom:







 







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Woodrow House







Stockport, UK







9







Owned













Yew Trees







Essex, UK







10







Owned










 




 


































Puerto Rico:







 







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Number of

Beds

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













First Hospital Panamericano—Cidra







Cidra, Puerto Rico







165







Owned













First Hospital Panamericano—San Juan







San Juan, Puerto Rico







45







Owned













First Hospital Panamericano—Ponce







Ponce, Puerto Rico







30







Owned










 




Outpatient Behavioral Health Care Facilities 




 




 































United States:







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Arbour Counseling Services







Rockland, Massachusetts







Owned













Arbour Senior Care







Rockland, Massachusetts







Owned













Behavioral Educational Services







Riverdale, Florida







Leased













The Canyon at Santa Monica







Santa Monica, California







Leased













First Home Care (VA)







Portsmouth, Virginia







Leased













Foundations Atlanta







Atlanta, Georgia







Leased













Foundations Detroit







Bingham Farms, Michigan







Leased













Foundations San Francisco







San Francisco, California







Leased













Michael’s House Outpatient







Palm Springs, California







Leased













The Pointe







Little Rock, Arkansas







Leased













St. Louis Behavioral Medicine Institute







St. Louis, Missouri







Owned













Talbott Recovery







Atlanta, Georgia







Owned










 































United Kingdom:







 







 













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Long Eaton Day Services







Nottingham, UK







Owned













Oakwood Gardens (SL)







Wolverhampton, UK







Leased













Sheffield Day Services







Sheffield, UK







Owned










 




 




 








































Outpatient Centers and Surgical Hospital













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Aiken Surgery Center







Aiken, South Carolina







Owned













Cancer Care Institute of Carolina







Aiken, South Carolina







Owned













Cornerstone Regional Hospital (4)







Edinburg, Texas







Leased













Manatee Diagnostic Center







Bradenton, Florida







Leased













Palms Westside Clinic ASC (6)







Royal Palm Beach, Florida







Leased













Quail Surgical and Pain Management Center (11)







Reno, Nevada







Leased







34











































Outpatient Centers and Surgical Hospital













Name of Facility




 







Location

 




 







Real

Property

Ownership

Interest

 




 













Temecula Valley Day Surgery and Pain Therapy Center (5)







Murrieta, California







Leased










 
















 (1)







We hold an 80% ownership interest in this facility through a general partnership interest in a limited partnership. The remaining 20% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party which leases the property to the partnership for nominal rent. The term of the partnership is scheduled to expire in July, 2047, and we have five, five-year extension options.  The term of the lease is coterminous with the partnership term with a fair market value rental of the property during the extension term. 
















 (2)







Real property leased from Universal Health Realty Income Trust. 
















 (3)







These entities are consolidated under one license operating as the South Texas Health System. 
















 (4)







We manage and own a noncontrolling interest of approximately 50% in the entity that operates this facility. 
















 (5)







We manage and own a majority interest in an LLC that owns and operates this center. 
















 (6)







We own a noncontrolling ownership interest of approximately 50% in the entity that operates this facility that is managed by a third-party. 
















 (7)







We hold an 89% ownership interest in this facility through both general and limited partnership interests. The remaining 11% ownership interest is held by unaffiliated third parties. 
















 (8)







Land of this facility is leased. 
















 

(

9

)







We manage and own a noncontrolling interest of 50% in this facility. The remaining 50% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party. Land of this facility is leased from the unaffiliated third party member. 
















(1

0

)







We manage and hold an 80% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 20% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party.
















(1

1

)







We hold a 51% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 49% ownership interest is held by unaffiliated third parties.
















(12)







We manage and hold a 52% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 48% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party.  The real property is leased from Universal Health Realty Income Trust. 




We own or lease medical office buildings adjoining some of our hospitals. We believe that the leases on the facilities, medical office buildings and other real estate leased or owned by us do not impose any material limitation on our operations. The aggregate lease payments on facilities leased by us were $82 million in both 2020 and 2019 and $81 million in 2018.
















ITEM 3.







Legal Proceedings




The information regarding our legal proceedings is contained in 

Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Commitments and Contingencies

, as included this Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference. 
















ITEM 4.







Mine Safety Disclosures




Not applicable.




 




35







PART II
















ITEM 5.







Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities




Our Class B Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol UHS. Shares of our Class A, Class C and Class D Common Stock are not traded in any public market, but are each convertible into shares of our Class B Common Stock on a share-for-share basis.




 




The number of stockholders of record as of January 31, 2021, were as follows: 




 
















Class A Common







 







 







17







 













Class B Common







 







 







895







 













Class C Common







 







 







1







 













Class D Common







 







 







92







 










 




Stock Repurchase Programs




In July, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion increase to our stock repurchase program, which increased the aggregate authorization to $2.7 billion from the previous $1.7 billion authorization approved in various increments since 2014. Pursuant to this program, which had an aggregate available repurchase authorization of $559.6 million as of December 31, 2020, shares of our Class B Common Stock may be repurchased, from time to time as conditions allow, on the open market or in negotiated private transactions.  There is no expiration date for our stock repurchase programs.  




In April, 2020, as part of various COVID-19 initiatives, we suspended our stock repurchase program.  We are planning to resume stock repurchases, subject to approval by our Board of Directors, during the second quarter of 2021.




 




As reflected below, during the three-month period ended December 31, 2020, no shares were repurchased pursuant to the terms of our stock repurchase program, since as mentioned above, we have suspended our stock repurchase program as part of our various COVID-19 initiatives. During the three –month period ended December 31, 2020, 49,525 shares were repurchased in connection with income tax withholding obligations resulting from the exercise of stock options and the vesting of restricted stock grants.




During the period of October 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, we repurchased the following shares:




 
















 







 







Additional




Dollars




Authorized




For




Repurchase




(in




thousands)







 







 







Total




number of




shares




purchased







 







 







Total




number of




shares




cancelled







 







 







Average




price paid




per share




for forfeited




restricted




shares







 







 







Total




Number




of shares




purchased




as part of




publicly




announced




programs







 







 







Average




price paid




per share




for shares




purchased




as part of




publicly




announced




program







 







 







Aggregate




purchase




price paid




(in thousands)







 







 







Maximum




number of




dollars that




may yet be




purchased




under the




program




(in




thousands)







 













October, 2020







 







 







—







 







 







 







—







 







 







 







1,100







 







 







$







0.01







 







 







 







—







 







 







$







—







 







 







$







—







 







 







$







559,563







 













November, 2020







 







 







—







 







 







 







10,346







 







 







 







573







 







 







$







0.01







 







 







 







—







 







 







$







—







 







 







$







—







 







 







$







559,563







 













December, 2020







 







 







—







 







 







 







39,179







 







 







 







1,384







 







 







$







0.01







 







 







 







—







 







 







$







—







 







 







$







—







 







 







$







559,563







 













Total October through




   December







 







$







-







 







 







 







49,525







 







 







 







3,057







 







 







$







0.01







 







 







 







—







 







 







N/A







 







 







$







—







 







 







 







 







 










 




Dividends




We have a history of paying quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders.  

In April, 2020, as part of various COVID-19 initiatives, 

we suspended declaration and payment of quarterly dividends.  

Our Board of Directors have recently approved resumption of quarterly dividend payments, of $0.20 per share, beginning in the first quarter of 2021. 




Our Credit Agreement contains covenants that include limitations on, among other things, dividends and stock repurchases (see below in 

Capital Resources-Credit Facilities and Outstanding Debt Securities

).




Equity Compensation




Refer to Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters, of this report for information regarding securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans.




36







Stock Price Performance Graph




The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the stock included in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a Peer Group Index during the five year period ended December 31, 2020. The graph assumes an investment of $100 made in our common stock and each Index as of January 1, 2016 and has been weighted based on market capitalization. Note that our common stock price performance shown below should not be viewed as being indicative of future performance.




Companies in the peer group, which consist of companies in the S&P 500 Index or S&P MidCap 400 Index are as follows: Acadia Healthcare Company, Inc., Community Health Systems, Inc., HCA Healthcare, Inc., LifePoint Health, Inc. (included until November, 2018, when it was acquired by Apollo Management) and Tenet Healthcare Corporation.







 




 




 
















Company Name / Index







 







2015 Base







 







 







2016







 







 







2017







 







 







2018







 







 







2019







 







 







2020







 













Universal Health Services, Inc.







 







$







100.00







 







 







$







89.32







 







 







$







95.51







 







 







$







98.53







 







 







$







121.80







 







 







$







116.92







 













S&P 500 Index







 







$







100.00







 







 







$







111.96







 







 







$







136.40







 







 







$







130.42







 







 







$







171.49







 







 







$







203.04







 













Peer Group







 







$







100.00







 







 







$







90.10







 







 







$







102.29







 







 







$







138.74







 







 







$







172.52







 







 







$







197.03







 










37







 
















ITEM 6.







Selected Financial Data




The following table contains our selected financial data for, or as of the end of, each of the five years ended December 31, 2020. You should read this table in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report and in Part II, 